A furious mother of a ten year-old boy from Tshomarelo Primary School in Tokologo Local Municipality, Lejweleputswa District, is still seeking justice for her son after he was allegedly beaten on the face with an electric wire pipe cover. The concerned parent, Nomvula Tweze who is the mother of Moses Tweze, told Dumelang News that she wrote several letters to the district but has not received any recourse. “Instead, the district suspended me from serving in the SGB because I was questioning how far are they with the disciplinary measures after the same educator instructed my child’s fellow learner to beat up another of their class mate until he bleeds, stating that she can’t beat the child because she had a pending case. Now the child is afraid to go to school. This must stop,” said the angry mother.She told Dumelang News that she sees the attack on her boy child as racially motivated. “The white female teacher is still practicing apartheid tendencies, I know that if MEC Tate Makgoe knew this is happening in his department, he would do something about it,” she added. She further said the incident happened when her son was writing a maths test with other learners and another learner, Nzimeni Molehe asked him to loan him an eraser. She said her child then replied and told him that he does not have one and that was when a certain “Mam Voster” asked who was talking. Having learned that it was Moses, she allegedly came to the two boys holding an electrical pipe and whipped Nzimeni two times and Moses once on his back and lashed him once under his left eye. The furious mother said when Moses cried, she pulled him out of the desk and told him “gaan uit”. Nomvula said the teacher did not thereafter report to her what had transpired. “On May 8 last year, I reported the matter to the circuit manager, Mr Olehile January, who told me that it was a minor issue and I took steps to open a case of assault with the police,” she said. A media enquiry to the Spokeperson of the Department of Education, Howard Ndaba, did not receive a response by the time of going to print. The spokesperson for the SAPS in the Free State, Constable Wendy Nkabi, confirmed that a case of crimen injuria was opened and that the matter was postponed on Tuesday for further investigation.