An unexpected hailstorm hit a number of houses in the tiny township of Ha-Rasebehi, Edenburg in the Kopanong Local Municipality on Monday, leaving much destruction. According to one of the residents, Mme Mampho Seema, whose house was also affected, massive hail stones had broke all the windows of her house, leaving her family vulnerable to criminals. “We do not feel safe anymore as all windows are broken and we had to use boxes and other objects to close the open windows and we can’t sleep at night because we  fear that criminals can gain access easily through the broken windows,” said the devastated mother of three.According to Ward 8 Councillor, Lehlohonolo May, who was also around when  the storm happened, the hail damaged roofs of most of the houses made out of asbestos. “Areas that were affected include amongst others houses in Phahameng, Motampelong and other parts of the township. As the municipality, we managed to dispatch our Community Development Project participants to assist to collate database of the affected households,” said May.He added that as the community, they are inspired by the promptness and coll aborative work of Xhariep District Municipality and Kopanong Local Municipality to evaluate and assess the nature of the disaster and give hope to the residents. “Community members are urged to work with their offices to report any issue relating to services and incidents. We are certain that the FS Provincial Government will declare this occurrence a disaster as per Disaster Management Act, Act No 57 of 2002 and the relevant authorities will provide the much needed support to the vulnerable community of Edenburg,” said May.He also pleaded with all local stakeholders including businesses to lend a helping hand working through the office of the municipality. “We urge all tradesmen to help advise affected families and assist where possible until a lasting solution is found.We thank the community members and the people in the neighbourhood for their help,” he said.  Meanwhile The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned that more rain that could lead to localised up to widespread flooding still expected till tomorrow. The weather service warned that provinces that could be mostly affected include Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and eastern part of the Free State. However, the weather service has also issued a warning of a possible cold front that will hit the entire Free State province during the next few days, mainly in Bloemfontein, Northern and Eastern parts of the province while alert for heavy rainfall that could lead to localised up to widespread flooding was issued for Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, the northern parts of the North West province, and over Mpumalanga, as well as the southern parts of Limpopo. According to Sihle Kunene, a Forecaster for the Free State, the current rainy weathers gripped by a cold front will remain cloudy and wet at least until Saturday and will move into the central parts of the country like the north-eastern part of the Free State, Gauteng, North West and the and KwaZulu-Natal and Lesotho. “Since it’s the first cold front for the winter season, it is difficult to predict when the weather conditions will stabilise. North-Eastern parts of the Free State to receive is also expected to have up to 80% chance of rain over the next two days,” he said. Residents have been urged to be safe while motorists are warned to drive with extra caution. Children are warned against playing along drainage systems and river stream. Emergency Services remain on high alert.