A modern generation of citizens of Sechaba Mahobeville (formerly known as E-section in Botshabelo) whose only inspiration in life has come from the various gangs within their community were recently given a new sense hope for a better future through a state-of-the-art library.Free State outgoin g premier, Ace Magashule - flanked by the MEC of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation, Mathabo Leeto - officially opened the Dual Purpose Sechaba Mahobe Library as part of the Human Rights Day commemoration and in honour of local struggle stalwart Sechaba Mahobe on Wednesday. The Dual Purpose library consists of a media room, gaming room, smart classrooms to make learning simpler, toy library, store room, events hall, dining  hall and even a  kitchen.The family of the late Mahobe, after whom the Library was named, thanked the provincial government for ensuring their father’s legacy lives on for ever.“We are honoured by the gesture to name the Library after our brother, son, and father. It is indeed heartening that the name of our Sechaba Mahobe will not be forgotten. We thank the Free State Provincial Government for this honour,” Lehlohonolo Mahobe said on behalf of the family. Sechaba Mahobe grew up in the dusty streets of E Section, which has been named after him. He was active in the community struggles against the Apartheid system.His activism will be particularly remembered for his role in the struggles fermented by the Botshabelo Youth Congress (BOYCO), against the agenda by the Apartheid regime to incorporate Botshabelo under Qwaqwa, an independent state under the then repressive government. In 2000, Sechaba Mahobe was elected as a Ward Councillor of Ward 32 in the Mangaung Local Municiplaity. He served the community and the council with sheer selflessness and diligence until he passed away in 2002. The naming of this library, which boasts, amongst others, computers, a kitchen, a wealth of books and study materials, ample study facilities and a beautiful garden, after Mahobe, is one of the goals of the Provincial Government to ensure that his name is never forgotten. To further assist the family of Mahobe, three family members of the struggle veteran will be employed at the library. The library will further provide employment and other opportunities to the members of the community where it is located