This week saw the Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela elected in the provincial Legislature on Tuesday followed by her inauguration ceremony which saw thousands of Free Stators in attendance to celebrate her appointment and bid farewell to former Premier Ace Magashule at the Free State Stadium on Wednesday. Dumelang News took time to talk to the new premier about the future of the province at the ceremony. Mama, first, congratulations on your appointment in the high provincial office, you are now officially the fourth female premier of the Free State since the dawn of democracy in 1994. Can you tell us how it feels?I am very happy… and thankful to everyone who believed in me, especially the ANC that trusted me so much that it decided to appoint me to lead the province of the Free State. I must say, it is very humbling and I believe and hope that I will be able to do everything that people of the Free State expect me to do for them. This is not for me but for them. Talking about what is expected of you, what is the first thing on your list that you will be doing for the people of the Free State?You know, for the past few weeks since the announcement of me being premier-elect, I have received so many messages from people across the province and to list some of the things they requested was unity among all of us, infrastructure development, the creation of job opportunities, improved service delivery, land and houses… those I believe are their priorities. People still live in shacks, young people are still loitering on the streets because they have nothing to do due to the unemployment crisis. Like you said, those are the priorities, are those all achievable. But among all of those issues, which will see immediate service delivery without any delays?     Well, nothing comes first and nothing comes last. As you would know, I will not be working alone and I have people who have been working with former Premier Ace Magashule on the same issues as MECs or members of the cabinet who will be ensuring that all that our people need becomes a reality in their life. I must say though, I will not have time to work with lazy people in government going forward… I have given them six months to ensure the implementation of what is set out in each department and if nothing is being done by that time, those responsible will have to make way for people who would really want to work for the community of the Free State. As provincial government and all our municipalities, we need to work hard and fast track implementations of our programmes especially the infrastructure in our townships, locations and rural areas.One of the things you are known for from the time you served as provincial chairperson of ANCWL to now as deputy president of the league is advocating for women empowerment and 50/50 representation in all positions. Now that you are appointed the provincial boss, are we likely to see more women taking more senior positions or being empowered? Look, when I spoke about infrastructure development, I was mostly looking at women, youth and people with disabilities… that is one of the places I want them to benefit and be included in senior positions. Women are powerful and hardworking, they have to be given a chance to prove that they are able to lead… for example, what happened in the legislature on Tuesday proves what I am talking about. A woman, Mamiki Qabathe was sitting on her speaker’s chair, another woman Judge President Mahube Molemela was presiding over the election of another woman (me)… that was history made in the Free State. We now want 30 percent empowerment of women in construction. You also spoke briefly in the Legislature and here at the stadium about expropriation of land saying “let’s take our land without compensation”. Can you elaborate more on that?The ruling party and the organisation I love and serve has given us a mandate and they took a resolution during its 54th national conference to expropriate land without compensation because that is our forefathers’ land which was forcefully taken from them. However, this does not mean that people should now go and try to grab every land they see… that is not how it works. In the Free State, we are known to be the country’s food basket and we need our land back to ensure black economic growth. Going back to the issue of agriculture, Premier, how are we doing as a province currently in that sector in ensuring economic growth and sustainable food security?I do know that the Department of Agriculture does have a few programmes that they are running now and they will soon work to fast track them. This includes the one house one garden programme which I believe will change many people’s lives. More so, people should also be given livestock and agricultural resources to be able to work and better their lives. Not everything should be done by the -government. We should all work together for the betterment of the Free State. Lastly, Premier, the organisation in the province seems to still be suffering from factional battles that are preventing it from choosing its new provincial executive, what can you say about that?Eish… the national conference is done and dusted last year and we chose our leadership under President Cyril Ramaphosa, that means there are no NDZ or CR17 anymore but one ANC. If there are any mistakes one has made prior to the conference, we must be able – in fact – to forgive each other and work together for the people who elected us.