Deputy President David Mabuza will today lead the national Human Rights Day commemoration in remembrance of the 69 protesters, who were killed by apartheid security forces during the anti-pass law protest in Sharpeville, Vereeniging.   The incident famously known as the Sharpeville Massacre took place on 21 March 1960 after thousands of anti-apartheid activists from Sharpeville and across the country protested against racial pass laws, which violated the basic human rights of black people.   The 21st of March was declared in the new democratic era as Human Rights Day to honour those who fought for liberation and to celebrate the many rights guaranteed under the Constitution of the Republic.   The national Human Rights commemoration will start with a wreath laying ceremony at Sharpeville Memorial Centre, followed by the formal programme, where Deputy President Mabuza will address the nation at George Thabe Cricket Sports Ground in Sharpeville, Emfuleni Local Municipality.   This year’s national Human Rights Day commemorations, held under the theme ‘The year of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela: Promoting and Deepening a Human Rights Culture across Society’, coincides with the centenary of the late and former President Nelson Mandela.   The centenary provides an opportunity to honour President Mandela’s memory by striving to ensure his vision of human rights and dignity for all South Africans is realised and celebrate his selfless role in fighting for equal rights for all South Africans.   Deputy President Mabuza said South Africa should use Human Rights Month to reflect on the dreams and aspirations of Madiba, which include the respect of basic human rights and commitment to the rule of law.   “All South Africans have a responsibility to promote freedom and defend our democracy in honour of Madiba’s life-long commitment to these ideals. President Mandela is our guiding light for the type of society we are building and people we aspire to become. Madiba advocated for human rights for all and believed that to deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity,” Deputy President Mabuza said.   Meanwhile, in the Free State, Premier Ace Magashule joined by Premier-Elect Sefora Ntombela and members of the executive have descended to the rural town of Botshabelo where they opened the newly built Sechaba Mohobe Dual Purpose state of the art Library in E-section. The Library is named after a local struggle stalwart Sechaba Mahobe and a large number of community members have benefitted in the construction projects. The library continues to benefit the local community through learning and job creation.