Community members of Mafora in Mangaung Bloemfontein woke up to a shocking murder of the “off-duty” police officer on Sunday morning. Police provincial spokesperson Colonel Thandi Mbambo said a manhunt is on for three suspects in connection with the murder of constable Bongani Moses Saliwe (39) who was gunned down near his house. Saliwe was working at Reddersburg police station. According to a community member – who requested to remain anonymous fearing for his life – said it is shocking how Saliwe was killed. “When I heard the gun-shot, I immediately woke up my wife and told her that something is wrong outside. It was shocking to realise that it was a Bongani who was shot, allegedly by people he had a fight with earlier in the night somewhere. They knew him and waited for him at his home to finish what they had started earlier,” said the man close to Saliwe’s home. Bongani’s younger brother, Lindani Saliwe said the family is not in a condition to speak to media about his brother’s death.  “We are requesting that all enquiries about my brother’s death be directed to the police as the family cannot comment at this stage,” he said. Mbambo said the incident took place at about 4 am when Saliwe was dropping off his neighbours (a couple) on his way home. “A dark BMW approached them. Three men came walking towards them whilst they were still in the vehicle. One of the men, armed with a firearm, knocked on the Constable’s window and he refused to open. The perpetrator demanded the firearm of the deceased and when he refused the perpetrator allegedly fired one shot which wounded the constable in the chest. He died on his way to the Hospital,” explained Mbambo. Saliwe’s murder comes at the time when the country is still healing from the gruesome attack and murder of five police officers and one off-duty soldier at the Ngcobo police station between Mthatha and Queenstown in the Eastern Cape last month. However, according to a report published by Sunday Tribune last month – which included the Ngcobo police station police killings and murder of Captain Dumisani Mhlanzi that took place during a robbery in KwaMaphumulo township in KZN – Twelve police officers have been killed in South Africa since the start of this year alone. Major General Tollie Afonso pleaded with the community to assist with information as the suspects took off with Saliwe’s service pistol and the motive behind the murder is still unknown at this stage. “We cannot allow the situation where our police members are killed senselessly. A loss of such a young dedicated member is a loss too many. We call on the community to assist with information that could lead to the arrest of these armed and dangerous perpetrators,” pleaded Afonso.