With this year’s Easter weekend around the corner, the excitement is almost tangible as families everywhere start finalising their plans for a quick getaway or a relaxing time at home. In South Africa specifically, tradition practically demands that people come together for a braai over a long weekend and nothing encourages fun and bonding like sitting around a fire and reminiscing about the old days without having to worry about getting up early the next morning for work. We asked people on the street how they planned to spend their holidays and this is what they had to say: Alice Nkobe - This Easter, I will be spending it with my family and I plan to make it worth it. My sisters from Botshabelo will be coming over on Saturday to celebrate with me and my family. We will have a braai whilst we bond since we don’t have time for that frequently due to work schedules the whole year. This is going to be a small get together, but one very much worth having as we will be talking about lots of things that happened years ago… and more so, sharing plans for the future and how can we help one another. Precious Stock - Easter for me is a symbol of hope, renewal, and new life. It is also a time for your family and friends to be together. However, for me this year, I will be spending much of my time at the church starting with ‘all night prayers’ on Friday to Saturday. Then relaxing with my family at home before going to yet another church service on Sunday. It is to reflect upon Jesus and his noncompliance in the face of the great authority where he holds to his truth. Kgatelelo Mokgoaladi - My Easter will be very different this year as I only plan to spend it with my family and no one else… no visitors. The holiday should be spent with family because you don’t always have time because everyone works. So, that is what I will be doing this year. In the process, I will try my best to ensure that they too enjoy being at home for a long weekend of grilling fish and some entertainment. It will be nothing serious as the plan is just to be with them. Sydney Pontso - This year I don’t plan on doing much for the Easter weekend apart from a braai and cold drinks with my family. However, I would have loved to do something big for them like taking them out on a weekend vacation somewhere but due to the financial constraints, those plans had to be cancelled and we have to focus on what we can do to make everyone in the family happy without having to spend much money we already don’t have. So, our decision was to simply organise a small braai at home for all of us. Slabber Nicolaas - I am now an old man and I stay with my kids at home, so, the best way for me is spending this time with them as much as I can. Nothing I know of is planned for this weekend unless they are planning something at home. But sure, one thing that has, for the past years, been our tradition, was to have a braai in the yard and praying to the Almighty to look after us and bless us… and that – I am sure – will still continue even this year without fail.