PARYS - Many South Africans will be commemorating Human Rights Day next week on Thursday 21 March, which will mark 58 years since the Sharpeville massacre. On that day in 1960, residents in Sharpeville took to the streets in protest against the Apartheid regime which infringed on the human right of Africans. Amongst other rights which these people died for was the right to health care, which is a fight close to Pitso Matsepe, one of the cancer patients from Tumahole in Parys. Matsepe said that he believed that many South Africans know their rights, but they seem to fail to excesses their particular right to quality health care, particularly amongst men. “According to the South African Constitution - everyone has the right to access health care services - but we seem to have a large number of men not willing to go to the clinic to get even a simple check up,” said Matsepe. He emphasised that men should not shy away from getting checked up, because there were people that fought hard against inequality and for the right to access good health care. “As a cancer patient, I have realised that many black people thought that cancer was an illness for white people, which is not true,” said Matsepe. According to him it is everyone’s right to know what illness they have or might be faced with. He pointed out that there is a greater need to know what types of cancers are forming in the human body. “At first we knew that there was cancer, but nowadays there are many types of cancers which if detected early enough can be cured. If the doctors find it at a later stage it could be detrimental to the patient,” said the hard-fighting cancer patient. Matsepe told the ‘People’s Paper’ that even young people are faced with the huge obstacle of having to fight cancer. “I look at some of the patients at the hospital and some are young people. There was this boy from Kimberley. His parents thought that he was bewitched only to find out that he has cancer and took him to some prophet to cleanse him. In my point of view, the parents have infringed the rights of that boy,” said Matsepe after being discharged from Universitas Hospital in Bloemfontein.Matsepe encouraged people to excesses their human rights to health care by getting screened for cancer and other illness.