Following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s instruction to have pit toilets eradicated at schools, an audit of all learning facilities with unsafe structures will be conducted within three months, Free State Education department MEC Tate Makgoe vowed to redirect departmental budget to fund the project. He told the Eyewitness News last week – that Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga’s urgent meeting aimed at coming up with a plan to eradicate unsafe toilets at schools on Thursday – that his department will also have to redirect some of its resources in order to fund the urgent project. “I think it’s a national embarrassment. It not only happens nationally but in our own provinces (sick).  And therefore, we must relook at our own budget and say instead of building a new hall, why can’t we use those resources to do away with this danger in our communities and schools,” said Makgoe. Ramaphosa has expressed shock and anger at the death of five-year-old Viwe Jali, who drowned in a pit toilet at the Luna Primary School in Mbizana in the Eastern Cape earlier this month. The Free State department of education has been allocated just over R13.5 billion for the coming financial year - the biggest chunk of the province’s R34.893 billion budget. The department is expected to table its 2018/19 budget vote on the 20th of April. It was reported last year that the province had 196 schools with pit toilets while 23 schools have no running water and five schools have no toilets at all. Motshekga has set up a team around the country that will conduct an audit of schools that have pit toilets and says Treasury may have to assist with costs once the department has completed its audit.  She said the extensive audit will be submitted to Ramaphosa in three months’ time and will also include the cost of addressing the sanitation issue. According to the minister – speaking to the SABC - the challenge is not with the figures which she says are being updated on a quarterly basis, but the budget.  She says the R7-billion annual budget for infrastructure is not nearly enough to eradicate pit latrines in South African schools. “Just to get water to schools to pay rent and repair other things, we have an R1 billion just to deal with one of the aspects of pit latrines in one province. There was an estimation of R3 billion for Limpopo, it has a backlog of 2500 of pit toilets just in one province.  We need no less than R10 billion just for pit latrines.”The department has - through its ASIDI programme - built dozens of schools around the country, but the pace of work has been overwhelmed by the needs on the ground.