The Deputy President of the African National Congress Women’s League and MEC of COGTA, Sisi Ntombela was announced on Wednesday as premier-elect to fill the shoes of outgoing Premier. The much anticipated announcement was made by the Secretary General of the ANC, Ace Magashule in a media briefing at Chief Albert Luthuli House in Johannesburg following the ordinary sitting of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the ANC held on Monday. During the announcement, Magashule told the media that Ntombela is expected to be confirmed at the Free State Legislature at a date that is still to be announced. On Thursday, Speaker of the Legislature, Mamiki Qabathe said they have received communication from the ruling party where it has confirmed that they have put forward Ntombela as their candidate for the position of the province’s premier. “After getting other names from the opposition parties and also having finalised a few logistics, we will announce a date for the official sworn-in procedure,” said Qabathe. Also, Magashule announced Mpumalanga Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Refilwe Mtsweni as the new premiers-elect for Mpumalanga. She replaces David Mabuza who has since been appointed as the Deputy President by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The appointment of Ntombela and Mtsweni will bring the number of women premiers in South Africa to four, when they join their counterparts, Sylvia Lucas (Northern Cape) and Helen Zille (Western Cape). Independent Political Analyst, Dumisani Hlophe told Dumelang News that the appointments of Ntombela and Mtsweni were not really calling for a celebration. “These are not outcomes of a robust engagement and cannot be celebrated merely because they mean gender representation in the top provincial positions. The question of whether they will remain premiers after the 2019 general elections still hangs in balance,” said Hlophe. Ntombela’s appointment has been received well by the Provincial Interim Coordinator (PIC) of the ANC. The Coordinator for the PIC, William Bulwane said Ntombela’s backround as a professional teacher, a family planning and youth advisor, a community leader, a social activist and a mother has contributed immensely to her appointment. “It is a good move which speaks to a call made by the ANC Women’s League previously. This means that we have four women in the country who are premiers, three from the ANC and one from the DA, it is a good balance,” said Bulwane. He, however, criticised Hlophe’s view, saying that everybody is still a caretaker in their respective positions just like when Former President Kgalema Motlanthe was a caretaker president when President Thabo Mbeki was recalled. “Hlophe is telling exactly what we know, come 2019 general elections, the movement will still have to relook into these matters,” Bulwane said. Ntombela’s nomination was also received well by one her own, Bandile Ntombela , who did not mince his words to shower his mother with praises, saying she was the best gift that an organisation like ANC can ever get. “She is one selfless person and we, as her children, have learned to understand that life is not about oneself but about others too. Sometimes, she would wake up at night to answer calls from members of the public, be it a woman being beaten up, a child suffering abuse, and she will always be there to lend a helping hand,” said the young Ntombela. See more on page 9