The Free State provincial government on Wednesday held the historic inauguration ceremony of the new Premier Sisi Ntombela and farewell for former premier, now ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule. The event was graced by thousands of Free Staters from all corners of the province. Amongst dignitaries who also graced the event were Rural Development and Land reform Minister, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and Minister of Women, Mathabile Dlamini. The event followed Tuesday’s swearing in of Ntombela in the Free State Legislature, an event that was presided by Judge Mahube Molemela. During the voting in the legislature, Ntombela received twenty votes while DA’s James Letuka got only four. DA however, questioned the counting of the votes and requested a recount. After recounting the votes, Judge Molemela, who administered the process, confirmed and announced that Ntombela won by 20 votes, while DA candidate, James Letuka, received only four votes. Ntombela urged opposition members to work closely with her office to ensure that the Free State government uplifts the lives of its residents. EFF Chairperson, Kgotso Morapela, FF Plus' Tammy Wessels, and DA leader, Roy Jankielsohn, all told Ntombela they will only work with her if she shows commitment to the people of the Free State.  They strongly emphasised that this should start with implementing cost containment measures, creating employment and addressing issues faced in municipalities, which includes the payment of about R6.2 billion owed by Free State municipalities. Meanwhile, the Free State provincial government defended reports of R20 million expenditure on Wednesday’s event.Speaking for government, Setjhaba Maphalla said there was no way that the budget could go to R20 million and at the time of the event on Wednesday, they have not yet finalised costs for premier’s inauguration, this means whoever made the allegations of the total amount was misinformed. This came after EFF and DA saying that the costs of the event were in the region of R20 million. “We have not yet finalised the budget, where does the EFF get that sum? We are currently conso lidating our budget in finalising that. Once we’re done, we will be able to give an exact amount,” said Maphalla.An Independent Political Analyst, Dumisani Hlophe said inaugurations and farewell ceremonies were historic events of any country and it was befitting of a person of Magashule’s calibre that it should be equal to his tenure as premier. “I am not sure of the figures but these days to organise big events, it takes a lot of money, however, it also depends on the availability of such a budget. The issue here is a befitting event as long as spending is done in a responsible way,” said Hlophe.  (See Q&A with Premier Sisi Ntombela)