The Office of the Premier has issued a red flag for all those implicated in the Vrede dairy scandal, this means that more disciplinary actions and criminal charges are likely to come to the fore. This follows the report from the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane on February 9th, which gave a directive to the Office of the Premier to take remedial actions to those implicated. Last month the dairy project made headlines when the Hawks made high profiled arrests on charges related to the theft of R220m from the Free State Agricultural Department. Amongst those arrested were the department’s HOD, Peter Thabethe, Selpate Dlamini, Dr Takisi Janki Masiteng, Kamal Vasrun, former director of Estina, Oakbay Investments, in its own capacity, Ashu Chawla, director of Oakbay Investments, Nazeem Howa, former director of Oakbay Investments, Verun Gupta, former director of Oakbay Investments, Ronica Ragovan, director at Tegeta and the Aero Haven company. All accused have since been released on bail.Spokesperson of the Premier, Tiisetso Makhele said the office was satisfied with the implementation plan it has submitted to the Public Protector in relation to her instruction to take action against those found to be culpable in the Estina Dairy farm scandal. “The Premier’s Office’s implementation plan is in line with what the Public Protector requested. We are confident that emanating from the implementation of this particular implementation plan, we’ll be able to deal with issues which relate to alleged or cases of maladministration and misconduct which the Public Protector found,” said Makhele. He added that the office is ready to discipline whoever is found to have taken part in the scandal, however, he was not prepared to go into the details of the plan. Following the submissions of the Office of the Premier, the Free State Legislature’s Joint Portfolio Committee on Public Accounts, Finance, and Economic Development visited the Estina Dairy Farm in Vrede last Friday. According to Legislature’s Spokesperson, Life Mokone, the Portfolio Committee led by the Chairperson Neels Van Rooyen visited the project included among other reasons to meet the project beneficiaries and other stakeholders regarding the widely reported corruption allegations associated with the project. Neels reportedly told the media that the committee would like to have Thabethe suspended until investigations have been completed. Meanwhile, on Monday, speaking to the media in Johannesburg, ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule hinted that some government officials will be called to account by law-enforcement agencies, the legislatures and the Judicial Commission of Inquiry dealing with the matter of state capture. “The ANC wishes to reiterate its principled approach that persons so implicated, should be presumed innocent until and unless proven otherwise,” said Magashule.