In the week that South Africa celebrated Human Rights Day, some serious questions about our right to privacy has hit the radar.  A serious backlash against Facebook’s latest controversy is starting to gain momentum with users and legal practitioners, whom Dumelang News spoke to.  This follows an article published by an international online publication,  Threatpost, where it said the company revealed that the data of 50 million platform users had leaked through a third-party app. Advocate Thabo Mhlokonya, the founder and principal legal practitioner of Mhlokonya Attorneys and Legal Services, a legal firm based in Bloemfontein and Trompsburg, said the alleged leak by Facebook is something that has had serious implications to users over the years and that it was a pity that no one was able to see it from that angle until Cambridge Analytica, a consulting group that has worked on several high-profile political campaigns, including that of US President Donald Trump’s, used the social media company’s platform to harvest the data of 50 million users. “Although it qualifies some form of a discrepancy from the side of Facebook to have leaked user’s information to the consulting company, the onus still rested with the social network giant to ensure that users were one way or the other informed of a possibility of their details being shared with third parties,” said Mhlokonya.He believes that it was also important for users to educate themselves with terms of use of social media applications. Mhlokonya also believes that many developers have gone into the market simply because they were aware of a lucrative business opportunity in the industry. Phillip Phiri from Botshabelo has been a Facebook user for over a decade.  He said it isn’t just Facebook that is vulnerable to such a problem but actually any platform or apps that request permission to use personal data. “That is why users are usually asked for permission to use their data. Developers know how tempting it is for users to agree and that is the end of the privacy agreement,” said Phiri.Another user, Martin Diya from Virginia had another view.“I was barely a high school graduate some 30 plus years ago w hen I deleted my account because I was able to read between the lines. It wasn’t then and isn’t now a secret that they sell your data to the highest bidder. Then again, I feel most Facebook users are asleep, wake up good people,” said Diya. While the social platform is facing revolt, it further outlines clear policies around data for third-party developers, including that developers must provide a publicly available policy that explains what data they are collecting and  how they will use that data.Advocate Thabo Mhlokonya also highlighted that another issue is that Facebook’s default privacy settings on the app automatically shares users’ data, including their email address and public profile, with the apps they interact with. “While users can protect themselves by checking their app settings and customizing what they share with apps, many are unaware that this is the case,” he said.Social media and internet researcher Arthur Goldstuck, when sharing the latest local figures for the biggest social media platforms in the country for 2017, as part of the latest SA Social Media Landscape Report for 2018, said with almost 30% of the population are now connected, South Africa has about 16 million active users of Facebook right now, 14 million of which access the site from mobile devices. Facebook shares went down by 11.4% compared to Friday’s closing price, following its disclosure that a firm with ties to the 2016 Trump campaign had improperly kept user data for years. This wiped an estimate of US$60billion  off its market cap, said a TechCrunch report.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, in his first comments since the user-privacy crisis now engulfing the company broke last Friday, admitted Facebook has made mistakes and outlined what it plans to do to restore trust with users. According to some experts one easy first step to prevent similar data exposures is to review the apps users have accessed on Facebook, which can be done on the service’s third-party app settings page. A good rule of thumb is to delete all the apps that you don’t recognize, or don’t feel comfortable with having access to your Facebook data. Alternatively, you can edit the permissions for individual apps, and for example decide that a certain app shouldn’t have access to your friends list, even if you have granted this in the past.