MEC for Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation, Mathabo Leeto hailed Free State Stars for a sterling performance which saw them beat Kaizer Chiefs to reach their first final of the Nedbank Cup since 1994.Stars beat the Glamour Boys 2-0 in the semifinal played on Saturday at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban to set up a date with Maritzburg United, who also knockout cup giants Mamelodi Sundowns in another semifinal clash a day after. Leeto is confident the team will emerge victorious, urging the fans to rally behind the side from Bethlehem."The Department hereby wishes to congratulate FS Stars for reaching the 2018 Nedbank Cup Final. We're confident the team will bring the trophy home. We call on all the people of the Free State to show their support for the team on 19 May in Cape Town. We wish the management and the players the best of luck,” she said. Ea Lla Koto beat Super Eagles, Chippa United and Ubuntu Cape Town on their way to the semifinal. The two sides will face off on Saturday, May 19, with the battle expected to be intense as both sides will not only be eager to getting their hands on the R6 million prize money on offer, but also book a spot in the CAF Confederation Cup. Meanwhile, Soccer hooligans caused damage worth R2.6-million at the Moses Mabhida Stadium when Kaizer Chiefs lost to Free Stars on Saturday. Durban mayor Zandile Gumede revealed the cost of repairs at a media briefing on Wednesday. She said 19 people suffered injuries.Gumede said there was a “long list” of damage‚ including to the pitch‚ goal posts‚ fencing‚ crowd management barriers‚ water points‚ bins‚ dinner plates‚ glasses‚ chairs and tables. Gumede condemned the violence‚ destruction of property and “hooliganism that was displayed in full view of the world on Saturday.” “No amount of frustration and anger should lead one to cause violence and injure other citizens in the name of sport. Lovers of sport are expected to understand the game better because‚ by nature‚ you either win or lose. If you lose‚ nobody must be threatened and no property must be destroyed‚” she said.