Bloemfontein - Passionate Abraham Ndlebe (54) from  Ndlebe residing at Phase 4, location in Mangaung, Bloemfontein, loves running regardless of his age of above 50. The talented athlete started running at the age of (34) at Ladybrand in the Free State, at that time he ran the half-marathon 21,5 kilometres from Ladybrand to Maseru, Lesotho and back to Ladybrand in 1997. "This is where the glimmer of running showed itself in me. By then I was working at the security company as the security guard and met Jacob Mabasa who was also an athlete he saw the passion, potential I have and the love of running to me he, therefore, encouraged me to stick to my talent because it can change my life. Mabaso nurtured and trained me and also gave me tips in terms of how to be a good runner." " Abraham Ndlebe said. "I joined the Bloemfontein Achilles Running Club in 1997 and in 1998 took part in Soweto Marathon, which was 42,2 kilometres that started at Nazareth and ended in Nazareth and I managed to get a silver medal, I was running on the category of Masters.Now my challenge is a shortage of running attire like running shoes, (the ones I have are damaged) My current shoes distract me and make me unable to achieve greater heights. The second challenge is that I sometimes use family money to pay registration fees, accommodation and the transportation, I sometimes use a lift to go the venue." said Ndlebe. "I, therefore, plead to businessmen in the Free State and the department of arts, culture and recreation in the Free State to assist me to accomplish my dream. At the moment I don’t have a trainer I train myself at Naval Hill in Bloemfontein to keep myself ready for the next race" said Ndlebe. "On the 31 March this year I took part at Old Mutual two Ocean Marathon held at Cape Town. I ran very well and managed to obtain the 5th position in the masters category with 4 hours, my aim was to obtain position 1 or two, because I trained very hard for the Two Ocean Marathon but due to my damaged running shoes I could not, but I fight like a wounded lion to obtain position five and I am happy for obtaining silver medal. I am busy preparing myself to run the upcoming Comrades Marathon to be held in Durban in June this year." said Ndlebe.