What was expected to be a quiet weekend of mourning for Brandfort residents during the burial of Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, turned into a nasty confrontation when fuming residents set the town and its R30 pay-road alight over what they deemed was an on-going water crisis in their area. During the day-long burial of the ‘mother of  the nation’ and anti-apartheid activist Mama Winnie  on Saturday, scenes – similar to those seen during the protests against apartheid regime – were displayed in the dusty streets of Majwemasweu township where the late icon was banished in 1977 by the security branch of apartheid government. This, after angry residents brought the township to a stand-still with burning tyres and rocks, and further damaging two police vehicles during their protest – which started on Friday – demanding restoration of the water supply from the Masilonyana Local Municipality. One resident, Madijeng Makgetha, blamed the municipality for the chaotic scenes in the area saying they are tired of being at the mercy of the municipality’s tankers which show up  only once or twice a week. “Today we are supposed to be sitting in our houses mourning for our beloved mother and watching her funeral on TV like everyone who could not manage to attend… but here we are fighting for water because we cannot live without it. It has been three weeks since out taps were closed. Our municipality is failing us,” said Makgetha.Black smoke from burning tyres were seen from a distance on Saturday and the entrances to the small town were shut-down as the R30 pay-road was barricaded with rocks and burning tyres. Makgetha added that they were promised that the water supply would be restored a week ago but since it has not, we had to take the matter to the streets.“The municipality keeps promising us that we will receive water but day after day, we wake up with empty taps,” she said.Last week Monday, both Free State premier Sisi Ntombela and ANC National Chairperson Gwede Mantashe apologised to residents for the water situation during Winnie Mandela’s memorial service held in the area and called on the municipality to resolve the matter urgently. Ntombela warned ANC deployees in the municipality to keep the people in loop of what was happening with regard to water problems.“As a comrade, you must fight for people to get water and inform communities of what challenges you are facing in the process,” said Ntombela.Her call was emphasised by Mantashe – who also serves as a minister of mineral resource –  when he said: “I apologise… it is unacceptable that the people of Brandfort have been living without water for close to three weeks. People are facing water challenges and the municipal mayor has not been communicating with residents on what the challenges are as well as when the matter will be sorted out. She should be here, telling us what is happening with the water situation. She is supposed to communicate, assessing whether or not the problem has been fixed or is still persisting”. Following the weekend’s protest, nine people have been arrested for public violence and malicious damage to property.Municipal spokesperson, Zongezile Ntjwabule told the TNA that a technical team and engineers were on site fixing the problem.“The panel pump was fixed in Kimberly but had to be sent to Johannesburg after it only worked for a bit and we have always provided water tankers to our residents since the problem started on March 25 (sic). We are doing what we can to fix the problem,” said Ntjwabule.