The protest by over three hundred members of the community from Marabastad, in Kroonstad, has been labelled as an act of opportunism by the Council Whip, Lucky Phoko.This follows an early Wednesday morning demonstration by the group who were dispersed by members of the South African Police Services after it emerged that their gathering was illegal. Some of the leaders of the group who spoke to Dumelang News said they have for the past six months tried to engaged local authorities on their grievances which include amongst others poor service delivery, corruption, underdevelopment of the area as well as failure to create jobs by the authorities. One of the protestors, Mojalefa Mosoeu said when they tried to invite  the executive mayor of Moqhaka Local Municipality, Tshidi Koloi, she ignored the invitation and cited reasons of her safety in the area. "The mayor even said she cannot come to Marabastad because the place is filthy and lacks order. All we want is an ear from our leaders. They must also refrain from employing people from far places such as Parys and Bloemfontein when we have unemployed graduate in the area," said Mosoeu. Responding to the allegations, Phoko said the demonstration was illegal and was nothing but a political stunt by people who want to use the hosting of provincial budgets as a platform for cheap politicking. "There is no crisis in Kroonstad. You will remember Marabastad is one of our oldest locations and the councillor that we have deployed in ward 13 which includes Marabastad is a member of the mayoral committee responsible for finance, so he knows very well issues of budgets intended to develop the place.  We invite any member of the community who has any grievance to voice them in a proper manner, through legal channels. As council, we are not aware of any memorandum of grievance from the group," said Phono. Meanwhile, Dumelang News learnt that during the protest, rubber bullets where fired and one of the protestor suffered injuries and had to be rushed to the local hospital, however, police could not confirm the shooting at the time of going to print.