Mangaung will host the 2018 National Freedom Day celebration which will mark  24 years of freedom from apartheid, colonial oppression and two decades of constitutional democracy. The event, which will be addressed by President Cyril Ramaphosa, will be held at the Dr Rantlai Petrus Molemela stadium in Bloemfontein on April 27. This will also mark Ramaphosa’s first official visit to the province since being sworn in as the president of the country.According to the MEC of Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation, Mathabo Leeto, most importantly, South Africans will be celebrating the centenary of former president Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu. Speaking at the sidelines of the department’s budget vote last Friday, Leeto told Dumelang News that members of the public are urged to join this celebration in large numbers.“Freedom Day is an opportunity not only to celebrate 20 years of the constitution, freedom and democracy but also to reflect on how South African democracy and freedom was achieved, the progress made in the past 24 years and how South Africans should work together to achieve economic freedom. Freedom and democracy in South Africa has taken a quantum leap from an oppressive regime to one of the most progressive constitutions in the world, including the Bill of Rights and the establishment of democratic and independent institutions that protect constitutional freedoms, including a Constitutional Court and Chapter 9 institutions,” said MEC Mathabo Leeto. She added that the event has created a new social climate and a sense of freedom and security for all; hence as a country it is important to focus on what brings people together than what separates them. She said the theme for the 2018 Freedom Month celebration is “The Year of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela: United for a Radical Socio-economic Transformation”. Preceding the commemoration of the National Freedom Day Celebrations, build-up activities took place, which included the social cohesion dialogue that unfolded on Thursday at the University of the Free State as well as a panel discussion where speakers such as Minister Nathi Mthethwa, MEC Leeto, Commissioner Nomasonto Mazibuko, Dr Chitja Twala and Professor Vuyiswa Tanga engaged and participated.Cooler boxes will not be allowed inside the venue and minors will not be allowed to enter the venue without the supervision of an adult. Concurrent historic celebrationsFreedom Day celebration is hosted during epochal moments in history, amongst them are the following;1. 106 Years of the ANC2. 119 Years of Thabo Mofutsanyana3. 101 Years of Oliver Reginald Tambo4. 100 Years of Nelson Mandela and Mama Albertina Sisulu5. 98 Years of Mphephetwa, Muntu omdala, Commissar Harry Gwala6. 81 Years of Mama Winnie Mandela7. 76 Years of Commander Chris Hani8. 53 Years of Kaizer Sebothelo