The family of Tsoehlisi in Mafora location, Bloemfontein, is still struggling to recuperate from a horrific pedestrian trampling that claimed the life of a 13-year-old son. Since the terrible news that shocked the whole neighbourhood on Sunday, Puleng Tsoehlisi said she cannot stop thinking or seeing her son’s face when she closes her eyes. The grade 8 puple, Rethabile Tsoehlisi died on Wednesday at the hospital after succumbing to severe injuries after allegedly he was hit and drove over about 100m away from his home by a speeding car.  “My son is gone… gone forever!” said Puleng trying to stop tears from falling down her face “I will never see him again because of some irresponsible people out there. All I want is see my son’s perpertrators locked up in jail until he dies for what he did to my son”. She said Rethabile had just left the house with friends when she received a call to the scene shortly afterwards. “He had just left to play with a group of friends and shortly, I was called and told that my son was hit by a car. I prayed that he survived the accident but due to the severity of injuries he sustained when the car - allegedly - dragged him for metres, he did not make it.  The driver will have to pay for that,” she said in pain of losing her first born. It is alleged – according to community members who saw the incident – that the unlicensed driver of the car was trying to overtake two cars in front of him, and while in the process, tried to avoid a pothole on the road which led to him flying to the side of the road where he drove into Rethabile. “He dragged the child for almost 80m after hitting him on the sidewalk. All of us became very angry and wanted to kill him right there but police managed to rescue him and we could not do that,” said a community member who did not want to be named.Dumelang News visited the scene of the accident yesterday and burning tyre marks – alleged to have been prepared to necklace the motorist – could still be seen on the street where the incident occurred. Rethabile’s angry uncle, Sello Tsoehlisi, told 'The People’s Paper' that the family want to see justice being served when the case finally goes to court.“We will not rest until we see justice being served. The suspect is an illegal immigrate from Lesotho; he has no drivers license and not even an ID. What was he doing driving cars in South Africa?” Tsoehlisi asked. It is further alleged that the suspect – working at the certain car wash in the location – had taken the car without the owner’s permission to do his errands after the owner had dropped it to be washed.However, it was further speculated that the owner of the vehile had requested the suspect to accompany her to her house so he can come back with the car to be washed. Contacted to clarify the matter yesterday, the owner of the car – whose names could not be confirmed by this publication – requested to be called after 15minutes but immediately switched off her phone when called again. Police spokesperson, Ikobeng Hlubi, confirmed that the case of reckless and negligent driving was open with the police but could not confirm whether the suspect sustained any injuries by community members. “The suspect has been arrested and appeared before the magistrate court on Tuesday facing charges of reckless and negligent driving. He will remain in the police custody until his next court appearance next month. However, we are still in the process of changing charges now that the victim has passed on,” said Hlubi.