The Nketoana Local Municipality held a career guidance and exhibition for the grade twelves last Friday at the Glass Hall in the Ntha township of Lindley. Some of the learners that attended were from Phukalla, Kwetlisong, Kgotso Uxolo, Lindley and Ikaheng Zakheni Senior Secondary Schools.According to Kido Nhlapo, who is the director of Corporate Services in the municipality, this initiative comes after they discovered that many pupils do graduate after matric but struggle to get jobs because they were making uninformed career choices. Nhlapo said ever since the municipality got involved by taking full charge of the career guide and exhibitions, pupils now made better  choices. “In the last few years, there were little opportunities for pupils who are in grade twelve, but today things have changed. Some pupils used to follow careers paths chosen by their friends and ultimately find that they have made the wrong choice. We as the municipality will ensure that we help them with all we have to see them follow their dreams,” said Nhlapo. Agricultural Adviser, Mampe Mokhatla, said pupils should make a choice that will give them opportunities to find jobs after completing their studies.“In the earlier days, people used to say agriculture was for the white people omly. Some used to say being in agriculture meant being a driver of a tractor for the whole day and that is not true at all,” she said. She said that in the agricultural sector, there are lot of sectors like economics for those who do better in the finances and that pupils also need to understand that agriculture is one of the backbones of the economy in the country.  “I therefore advise them to take it as one of their courses in higher education institutions,” said Mampe. Lerato Nondeyi, a project and partnership assistant at Motheo TVET College, said this is one of the opportunities pupils need to use for their own future. She said she is happy that pupils have taken charge of their own lives. “I like the fact that they were listening carefully and ask relevant questions. I am looking forward to see them studying at our institution as from next year. I am saying this because we also ensured that we help them fill their application forms,” said Nondeyi. One of the pupils, Thandi Radebe (22) from Phukalla Senior Secondary School said she can't wait to see herself at the university of the Free State’s Qwaqwa campus next year. Radebe said she wants to study Bachelor of Arts in Education specialising in History.