Many Free State matric learners who passed their grade 12 with university entrance flocked to the University Free State for registration this week. Some were successfully registered but some did not because of the high volume of students. Dumelang News spoke to Professor Francis Petersen to outline the state of registration at University of Free State on Monday. “The registration processes at our campuses are going pretty well, we have an enrolment target of over 8000 first year students but we received 55000 applications. Our plans have been communicated clearly to students that they should have apply first to the university for a specific programme. In terms of walk-ins, if there is space available we would accommodate them, obviously if they meet the academic requirements,” said Petersen. He said if there is no space available for them we will refer them to central application clearing house (CASH).“We also have got a facility to link them up specifically with CASH, so at the moment all our programme are full. We have a waiting list for students both our main programme as well as our extended programme. As for accommodation for first years, we tried to see how many first years we can accommodate on both campuses,  beds are full in the South campus and QwaQwa campus,” said Petersen. He said last year started with a process were they accredited off campus accommodation and that was done purely  from safety perspective because they would like to have good living condition as well as safety condition with off campus accommodation.  Petersen said there are 800 beds allocated to first year students for off campus accommodation. “All in all I am very happy with the registration process. Online registrations are happening continuously but real registration will only take place towards the end of January and beginning of February,” he said. Meanwhile, EFF Provincial Secretary of Student Commander in the Free State, Patience Dibate said they are so far happy with the state of registration at UFS although there are few challenges here and there, one being the issue of NSFAS as many students have not yet received any response from NSFAS and this is frustrating to both parents and students.