Traffic congestion, thousands of litres of water lost which left residents dry was the order in the past week in one of Mangaung’s busiest intersections, all that one could see are rubbles of old rotten mega pipes that have been extracted underground by construction workers on siteThis state of affairs is a reminiscent of the almost a week of dry taps for some Mangaung residents after water stoppage in the area due to a pipe burst late last year which Mangaung Metro Municipality spokesperson, Qondile Khedama, said was due to a concrete water pipe burst which happened one week after the other. Even last week, a team of engineers was seen extracting pieces of damaged pipes and replaced it with a new steel pipe. Dumelang News spoke to some of the residents staying at the nearby flats who complained about water disruptions due to the burst pipes. “It is a new year, we are new here and every day we wake up having to go and look for study opportunities in the city but how does one do that when there is no water to use for bathing. What is worst is that no one bothered to explain to what was going on we had to find out ourselves when we saw the whole road at the front is marred with running water from the burst,” said Dimakatso Seneli from the Eastern Cape. Her friend, Oumaki Van Dyk said she tried to call the agency responsible for their flat but no explanation was obtained as to what happened and how long it will take to fix the water problem. Some of the motorists who struggled to use Park Road to access First Avenue said the rubble in the road was disturbing and causing chaos. “Last week, this thing happened twice and there are no signs or whatsoever that one could identify so that at least one could redirect to another road,” said the meter taxi driver who is using the road frequently. In the past Mangaung has experienced high water bills at water boards due what the metro said at the time that old infrastructure and illegal water connections contributed to such debts. In the latest incidents, no respond was received from Khedama to an email that was sent as early as Monday.