Parents of pupils and staff at the Phulamadiboho Primary School, in Intabazwe, Eastern Free State, have chosen to officially end their silence earlier this week and speak out against what they deemed ‘dishonest’ school governing body members who were accused of not following protocol. According to school principal, Sandile Nkala, two SGB members had ordered books from an unknown supplier and had paid the supplier in full with a cheque allegedly containing a forged signature. Nkala explained that both himself and his staff had initially agreed by consensus on the supplier from which the books would be purchased, however, two SGB members overrode this decision and allegedly proceeded to attain the books from a supplier unknown to the principal and staff, having allegedly paid them in full with a fraudulent cheque. While the books have arrived at the school, the principal and staff have refused to accept them, claiming they were attained in an unlawful manner and have moved forward with charges against the perpetrating SGB members. “I can confirm that a case of fraud has been opened up against the chairperson and the governing body,” Nkala said. Meanwhile, parents have claimed that this is not the first time members of the SGB have been a law unto themselves. One parent, Malenka Phakathi, claimed that the said SGB members took the liberty of making such bold decisions themselves, without consulting the rest of them, alleging that they were “signing cheques in the corners”. "They don't respect the power of the principal and his deputy,” she said. Howard Ndaba, spokesperson for the Basic Education Department in the Free State told Dumelang News that the situation at school was stable and back to normal. He said the SGB chairperson's membership has been ceased as the said chairperson’s child left school at the end of last year. He further mentioned that the investigations which started on the 23 January 2018 will provide further direction for the future of the two SGB members. "The process of by-elections for vacancies in the SGB will be completed within the stipulated period and their existence will end on March 31, this year," said Ndaba.