The Rail Safety Regulator (RSR) has prohibited the use of the manual signalling system after the recent rail accidents in the Free State and Germiston. The prohibition is likely to affect over 2 million people across the country. RSR said the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) must ensure that affected commuters are provided with alternative transport and stop insisting on the continued use of the dysfunctional signalling system. PRASA reliance on the faulty manual signalling system accounted for 8 percent of collisions between trains with direct costs increasing from R889 million to R961 million in the 2016/17 financial year. “It is clear that the use of the manual signalling system has largely been a consequence of the delay by both PRASA and the Department of Transport in facilitating signal modernisation. PRASA’s claim that cable theft justified the need for a manual system is simply a flimsy attempt to avoid taking responsibility for its own inaction. PRASA has done little to improve security on the rail system, giving trespassers and criminals free access to key areas of the rail network,”  the regulator said in a statement. Meanwhile, nineteen people have been confirmed dead in the horror Free State train crash but the death toll could rise even further after officials on Monday revealed that as many as 15 more people are still unaccounted for. Daisy Daniel, spokesperson for the Shosholoza Meyl passenger train, said 15 people were still missing or unaccounted for following last Thursday’s accident.  Prasa spokesperson Sipho Sithole said they have to deal with the deceased first because they don’t know who the 19 are because of the state they are in but still have to find out through DNA testing. Sithole said family members were taken to Kroonstad for the identification process. Health authorities have said they were ready to begin the identification process on Tuesday. Among those who were injured was 30-year-old Calvin Baloyi, who said things were no longer the same since the day of the accident. “I really don’t know what is happening with my mind anymore, I’m still shocked and I can’t concentrate anymore like I used to before the accident. I have lost my mind.” Baloyi said he was travelling from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg when the accident occurred. “I don’t have focus, I can’t concentrate anymore, I am traumatised by what happened.”   Meanwhile More than 200 people have been injured in a collision between two trains at the Geldenhuys train station in Germiston on the East Rand. Reports say both trains were ferrying commuters to Springs. It was found that one of the carriages has derailed but fortunately not overturned in this incident.”