EAST LONDON - It is all systems go for the African National Congress’ 106 year celebration which will be held this weekend in the Eastern Cape. It is expected that dinner will be well served tonight at the gala event ahead of the main celebrations tomorrow at ABSA Stadium in East London were ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa will be delivering the January 8 statement. January 8 marks the day the ANC was formed in Bloemfontein. The ANC itself was founded in January 8 1912 as the South African Native National Congress. In 1923 the party was renamed the African National Congress. The celebration takes place, amongst others, in the year in which South Africa and the world will celebrate 100 years since the birth of the father of the nation, Nelson Mandela. As African National Congress (ANC) leaders continue to differ on whether or not President Jacob Zuma should be recalled, the party’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa, has called on its leaders to stop fighting, be united and speak with one voice. Ramaphosa spoke after the top leadership visited the home of former President Nelson Mandela in Qunu. Meanwhile, the ANC special National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting‚ the first for 2018 and for the newly elected-leadership collective‚ has concluded without any fireworks. The future of President Jacob Zuma‚ as promised by party’s secretary-general Ace Magashule before the start of the meeting in East London‚ did not feature. The meeting only deliberated on what the January 8 statement that party president Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver to ANC supporters on Saturday at the Stadium should entail. Dumelang News can confirm that on Thursday morning traffic was already building up to the 106 year celebrations which will see many party members and supporters going to the ABSA staduim. According to online reports the statement is expected to be emphatic on the unity message that Ramaphosa and the Nasrec-elected NEC have been driving for - to bring together factions that had different preferences going into the conference at Nasrec last month. Also‚ the statement is expected to give an indication of the governing party's campaign message going into next year's general elections. In a media statement released on Monday, the ruling party said “we must never lose sight of the selfless sacrifices of thousands of people, many remain nameless and faceless who gave their lives for the freedoms we enjoy today.” “In this regard we have identified four key priorities:- being to place the economy on a better trajectory, deepen transformation and consolidate the gains of democracy, relentlessly fight corruption in all its forms and build unity within the ANC and the country as a whole,” read the statement.