Lungisani Ngidi (21) has one simple wish after making a sensational test debut for South Africa. "I'd like this to be a long career," the Durban-born bowler said on Wednesday after picking up the man of the match award in the second test against India at SuperSport Park. Proteas captain Faf du Plessis has lauded the irrepressible character of his team in the series-clinching 135-run win against India in the second test match at SuperSport Park on Wednesday. The Proteas claimed an unassailable 2-0 lead with the 3rd and final match to be played at Wanderers starting on 24 January. Du Plessis says the never-say-die attitude from his players in difficult conditions was particularly pleasing, along with the collective team effort from both the batsmen and bowlers and in the field. “It’s extremely special,” he said of the win. “The previous game at Newlands was fast and exciting, this was the complete opposite. It was a game of grinding, a lot of hard work and it needed you to push yourself for longer and longer. That is what makes this test match special. Lungi Ngidi put in an exceptional performance on debut with man-of-the-match figures of 7/90, a performance which has given an exciting glimpse of the future of fast bowling in South Africa.  The captain says he was immensely impressed by the 21-year-old’s maturity in a high-pressure environment, especially his pace and control which gave the impression of a youngster who has been playing test match cricket long before his time. Meanwhile Virat Kohli on Thursday was crowned cricketer of the year by the sport's world governing body, capping off a strong innings for the Indian skipper across all three formats of the game. Australian captain Steve Smith was named test player of the year as the International Cricket Council unveiled its annual awards. Kohli is just the fourth Indian to win the prestigious Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy, following in the footsteps of batting greats Sachin Tendulkar (2010), Rahul Dravid (2004) and teammate Ravichandran Ashwin (2016)