A Welkom businessman recently handed himself over to police after eleven victims were rescued from his farm and lodge last week. According to Free State Hawks spokesperson, Captain S’fiso Nyakane, the man appeared at the Welkom Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on charges of human trafficking and the case was postponed until February 12 while police were investigating. He said the alleged “king-pin” handed himself over to the Directorate of Priority Crimes Investigation on Tuesday after six suspects, Moalosi Boyaphi, John Mothebe, Mpele Agnencia, Tgakholi Celesting, Abram Sekoleli and Dineo Mofana, aged between 68 and 27, were arrested last week during a raid by authorities.   “The raids were carried out following information received from Interpol concerning a victim that was being kept against his will at the farm. On the scene, five victims were found and rescued, and an additional five were rescued from the lodge,” said Nyakane. He said the the group of 10 were rescued from the 50-year-old businessman’s farm in Khune village, and his lodge, which was allegedly operating as a brothel. He added that on Tuesday, a 28-year-old Lesotho national was also rescued from the farm. Nyakane said the youngest victim was born in 1994, and the oldest was born in 1980, adding that there were three males and five females from Lesotho, and three females from Bloemfontein. “They were recruited by two suspects from Lesotho who promised them work as receptionists, shop assistants, and, domestic workers,” said Nyakane said. The six suspects arrested last week had already appeared before the Welkom and Odendaalsrus Magistrate’s Courts last Friday, and their cases were postponed to January 19 and 22 for formal bail application. An additional suspect, 27-year-old Lebona Phumela, was arrested on Monday following further investigations. She appeared before the Odendaalsrus Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday on charges of human trafficking and her case was postponed to January 22. Nyakane said he expected more charges to follow, adding that the cases would be centralised after the bail application of all suspects involved.