Democratic Alliance has been netting own goals that could prevent it winning Gauteng in the next election. While the political focus was trained on the ANC’s succession race, the battles on various fronts in the official opposition Democratic Alliance have been mounting. The DA will have to dig deep to convince the electorate that it is capable of governing Gauteng, its prime target in the 2019 national elections, when it has battled to contain the fires in various municipalities it controls. This is particularly as the party’s messaging has centred on the promise of good and corruption-free governance; but in the past week alone it announced disciplinary action against a mayor for maladministration and removed a finance MMC over allegations of corruption. The party is choking in governance in two metros it won at the 2016 local government elections, as well as in its flagship, the City of Cape Town.It is putting out fires in Nelson Mandela Bay and Johannesburg, and has lost the running of Mogale City in Gauteng. In Mogale City, the DA-led coalition, failed to hold onto a slight majority, in part due to infighting. Its coalition government in the Metsimaholo municipality in the Free State also collapsed after it failed to pass the budget, and the municipality had to be placed under administration. The problem stemmed from a coalition partner decamping to the ANC. On Sunday, DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced that Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille has been formally charged for alleged misconduct and bringing the party into disrepute. This followed her suspension, announced on December 15, a day before the start of the ANC’s national conference. A day later, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba announced that he was axing his MMC of finance, Rabelani Dagada. Mashaba apparently gave the DA’s federal executive an ultimatum: Dagada gets fired or Mashaba quits. Mashaba fired Dagada on Monday, citing a forensic investigation that pointed to nepotism and undue influence by Dagada as the main reasons for dismissing him. Dagada called the dismissal a political "witch hunt". The decision was made in consultation with the DA’s federal executive, which met on the Sunday, and Dagada was informed by Mashaba in his office on Monday morning.