Mangaung’s first mayor after the democratic dispensation Jani Mohapi (62) has been buried, he died at Military Hospital in Pretoria. Mohapi died after long illness and left his wife Lentikile Lehoke and son Keorapetse. He was buried last Saturday in Mangaung where speaker after speaker told good stories and good work and also described him as the gallant, great freedom fighter and critical thinker at his funeral service. The funeral service was held on Saturday at Kagisanong hall in Rockland in Mangaung, Bloemfontein. After that he was laid to rest at Phahameng Cemetery in Mangaung. Hundreds of people, comrades, friends and his former colleagues attended his funeral to say goodbye to their gallant freedom fighter. The brother of the deceased White Mohapi said they were saddened as the family about the death of their brother. “Jani Mohapi played a role in my life socially and politically. I learnt so many things from him because he was my brother, leader and activist. I learned so much when he talked about politics and when he was recruiting. He played a critical role in taking part in the Congress of South African Student at University of the North, which was called Turf loop University by then,” said White. COPE leader Mosiuoa Lekota said he worked with Jani when they were together at United Democratic Front (UDF). “He was a dedicated person who had a good understanding of the requirement of the liberation struggle. It is a sad lose him because he was somebody who was devoted his life to liberation struggle,” said Lekota. Former Mangaung Executive Mayor, Thabo Manyoni said he knew the deceased for many years. “We were together in the regional structures of the ANC. Even during those days when the ANC was divided into two regions, the South and the North, I served with him in the structures. He was a man of conviction and a man of principles and he was a fearless combatant. He always stuck to his point no matter what, he was one of the first mayor when we were starting local government to run this Mangaung Local Municipality during those days and made sure that much of the resources were going to the black township,” said Manyoni. He added that the deceased was also the speaker of the Free State Legislature and when a decision was taken to remove him you could see his conviction and how strong and stubborn he was, he even told the Judge to get away from his way.