She’s young, she’s talented and she’s a passionate model only in grade 11 at the HTS Louis Botha High School in Bloemfontein. Her name is Mbali Nzaka and she is one 15-year-old on a mission. Mbali started modelling at school in early 2016. In January last year, she was selected among the 52 young models from South Africa and 11 models from the Free State chosen to represent the country at the 2017 Arts International final. They competed in the modelling category where scores of other young candidates from countries all over the world participated. Mbali told Dumelang News that the experience was a dream come true. “We left in August in 2017 to New York. I was very excited because it was what I always dreamt of doing. I felt like I was at the University of Arts. I attended different workshops on photography, commercial acting, dancing, runaway modelling and self-taping. After the workshop, we put on performances to put into practise what we had learnt. In December, I travelled to California for another workshop were we also put on our performance. I participated in many workshops here too,” Mbali said. After all the performance and training, all contestants had their own red carpet celebration where an award ceremony took place in Hollywood.  It was here  that Mbali scooped first position in the Creative Runaway category. “I was awarded a trophy. The director of casting and recruitment in New York,  Roger Deponzo, saw that I had great potential in modelling  and promised to meet with me again  because he is coming to South Africa next year in June. I am so happy to won the first price and I feel great that my director believed in me," Said Mbali. "I have also entered the Miss Free State Teen Finalist 2017-2018 competition and I am looking forward the day of the crowning of Miss Free State teen Finalist and hoping to win it. My message to the upcoming models is that the love of modelling has to come from within and you must have a passion and love for what you are doing because it can change your entire life,” She concluded