“We have $25 billion ready for infrastructure spending”  Team South Africa will return home after completing a very successful pilgrimage to the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meetings, said Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. “We’ve had a very, very successful pilgrimage to Davos. The journey has paid dividends,” he said.Speaking at a press briefing on day three of the meeting in the snow-swamped city of Davos-Klosters, Switzerland, the Deputy President said the South African delegation will return home with the confidence that investors have given the country a good report. “We’ve heard nothing negative said about our country,” said the Deputy President. He added that investors had encouraged the country to press forward and follow through with reforms. “We go home with a bag full of investment commitments. Investors are buoyed… this is what we have been hoping to hear. We want to hear investors say that our message is clear,” said the Deputy President at the second last day of the annual meeting. At Thursday’s briefing at the WEF - Media Village Press Conference Room, Deputy President Ramaphosa said discussions around the matter or nuclear are still ongoing. “We’ve got to look at where our economy is…. We have no money for nuclear power plants. We need to look at the situation within our current context,” he said. This as South Africa’s power utility Eskom announced last year that it currently has surplus energy. South Africa’s approved Integrated Resource Plan of 2010-30 provides for coal, gas, renewables and 9600 megawatt nuclear as part of the energy landscape by 2030. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa said corruption and the balance sheets of State Owned Entities (SOEs) has impeded growth. In December, Statistics South Africa announced that South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 2% in the third quarter of 2017. Second quarter GDP growth, which pulled the South African economy from a technical recession, was revised from 2.5% to 2.8% after the incorporation of revised data sources. The Deputy President said the mining charter will be further discussed as the country does not want to miss the commodity boom. The Deputy President’s comments were further reiterated by Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies who said that investors have a more optimistic view of South Africa following the recent political developments in December 2017. “Investors have a much more optimistic view of South Africa than last year,” he said, adding that South Africa has had a stable political transition and that there is a strong commitment to address the issue of state capture. He said the country has turned a corner and that “we are beginning to get on top of our challenges”.Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel said over the course of the meeting, investors have expressed a growing appetite to expand their operations into South Africa. “We see it as a great base. We have $25 billion ready for infrastructure spending [and] that gives certainty to investors,” said Minister Patel