When she was bitten by the radio bug back in 2008, all she ever wanted was to be like her teen idol Seipati "Twasa" Seoke presenting one of the biggest youth shows, but today Pulane Makatse found herself in the newsroom that she is in and she is there to stay. The bubbly young radio news anchor shared her radio journey and her aspiration to win one of the biggest radio awards with Dumelang News. "I started radio work at Naledi FM, a community broadcaster based in Senekal in 2008 and left in 2010 where I joined the Botshabelo based Mosupatsela FM. From Naledi right until today at Mosupatsela, I have been in the newsroom doing current affairs and sometimes going out on the field to do some reporting and I like it," she said. She said her love for radio started at a young age when she was still in high school listening to Twasa on SABC's Lesedi FM and she wanted to be like her because she likes her energy. Makatse said all that changed the minute she landed her foot in the newsroom and suddenly she was in love with news Her passion for news grew gradually to a point that she felt she needed more in the newsroom. Today, the Lesotho born daughter with eight siblings has been nominated for the Best Audio Packaging award in the 2017 Community Radio Week. All she needs to scoop the award is votes from her listeners who only need to SMS the word BAP4 to the number 45918 and make her a winner. "Winning this award will prove that I am actually one of the best and it will mark one of my highlights in my radio career which I believe will also open doors for me to expand," she said. According to Makatse, radio is one of the best media platform innovated ever because it transmits information immediately unlike other medium where there is a lot of further development and processing of information to be made, as a results she does not see herself going anywhere in the media space. She encourages anyone who wants to make in the industry to ensure that it is more about passion than making a quick buck.