The Free State province is in need of scares skills, hence countries like China are good in economy because it has confidence on its citizens, the executive mayor of Maluti A  Phofung, Vusimusi Tshabalala told Dumelang News on Tuesday during the bursary holder's meeting. Tshabalala also addressed hundreds of students at the Phuthaditjhaba multipurpose hall, Qwaqwa in the Eastern Free State. “I was very shocked to see a child of four year old operating a computer like nobody's business when I was in China, " said  Tshabalala. He said South Africa must start making investments in skills and education for children when they're as little as in three year old. Tshabalala further urged students to work very hard at schools after being offered the bursaries. "Although we had never come across an issue of students who misuse the bursaries offered to them, I have to make an appeal to those who'll start attending tertiary phases this year to put more effort on their studies. We are supported by the business people at some stage in order to ensure that students get bursaries, and it's very disappointing to find that they have waisted their money for people who don't need it," elaborated Tshabalala. He said at the moment, the municipality cannot specifically give a proper number of students who will be in a position of getting bursaries this year, but will be announced later on. Matshediso Moru, assistant director for Values in Education and Coordinator of Quality Learning and Teaching Campaign (QLTC) committee said the municipality helped them a lot. "They were on our side when organising the motivational talks at schools, " she said. Moru said the executive mayor himself was always there during matric prayers with different church leaders.  She added that in every municipal activity, the QLTC was always invited and given chance to make contributions especially if it involves pupils and youth. James Mzizi (24) who studied Bachelor of education degree at North West university said the life situation at his home will never be same again. "My mom is a hawker and was unable to send me to school, but the bursary I got from MAP municipality helped me a lot," said Mzizi. He told The People's Paper that he shouldn't be what he is today if it wasn't because of the executive mayor and his municipality. Sizakele Msibi from Verkykerskop farm said her dreams came true.  "All doors in my life are open. I will be a qualified teacher in four years time as I have been offered a bursary to go and study at the university of the Free State by the MAP executive mayor and his team," said twenty year old Sizakele. She advised other students to work even harder on their studies and believe in themselves.