The Viceroy Research group has called on the Finance Minister and the South African Reserve Bank to immediately place Capitec under curatorship after branding the bank as a loan shark with massively understated defaults, masquerading as a community finance provider. The US based research organisation also produced the report that blew the lid on the accounting fraud at Steinhoff last year. In its latest report released on Tuesday morning, Viceroy said it has found that Capitec has been advising and approving loans to delinquent customers in order to repay existing loans. The research group further states that there’s no operational difference between Capitec and the likes of African Bank, which went under due to reckless lending. Viceroy said that it compiled its report based on information from former Capitec employees, customers and people familiar with the business. Resident Economist from the University of the Free State, Professor Phillipe Burger, could not give much detailed analysis on the matter because he believes that the accuracy of the report also needed to be studied. “At this stage I don’t think it would be wise for any of us in the sector to be saying anything on the matter because the report is saying a lot of things that must be verified with certain people, for example it would also be advisable to speak to the bank’s debtors of such loans just to get an understanding of their financial literacy which might have landed them in the hands of Capitec,” said Burger. He said it was also crucial to note the South African Reserve Bank’s statement where it said that Capitec is solvent, in a stable financial state. Meanwhile SARB said in an emailed that the bank meets all prudential requirements. “As part of our mandate, we monitor the safety and soundness of all banks, including Capitec Bank. According to all the information available, Capitec is solvent, well capitalised and has adequate liquidity. The bank meets all prudential requirements,” said SARB. Viceroy Research in its report called on the SARB to immediately place Capitec under curatorship.Based on SA household economic indicators and other macro factors, Viceroy believes loopholes are being utilised to sustain unaffordable borrowing. This includes consolidating previous loans; restructuring or consolidation fees; initiation fees and service fees, which, in the research group’s view, all hide the true reality of a business struggling in a sector where historically, businesses have collapsed.