For some parents, the declaration of free education at higher institutions was a relief. But when none of these promises materialised, tempers flared, resulting in the call by the South African Student Council (Sasco) for a meeting to be held at the   Phuthaditjhaba multipurpose hall in Qwaqwa on Friday, to discuss the actual implementation of such a promise. Katiso Polokoane, chairperson for Sasco in the Thabo Mofutsanyana district's municipality, explained at the meeting that the implementation of free education in the country remained a serious problem as universities and colleges were still demanding registration fees from students.Polokoane said that since president Jacob Zuma has announced that free education would be introduced this year, the need for registration fees was causing a lot of alarm and confusion amongst prospective students and their parentsKatiso said: “The Free State university itself said first year students would not need a registration fee, now they are saying something different. These registration fees are a real hurdle for needy families.” Vusi Nyama, the Sadtu chairperson in the Thabo Koaho region, said the announcement of free education by the president was a political blunder. "The president announced this without consultation with the minister of higher education. As leaders, they should've met and discuss it thoroughly before taking it out to the public, " said Nyama. He said that at the time of the announcement, it seemed as if every student who passed matric was guaranteed the opportunity to study for free at higher education institutions. "Parents are drowning in stress now because lines of students registering at the higher education institutions are too long and they are told to go back home," said Nyama. The Congress for South African Students (Cosas) was also part of the meeting. Lebohang Mokoaledi, the congress president, said they will keep on fighting for the rights of students. "We cannot stand here and just watch our fellow brothers and sisters struggle to get free education,” said Mokoaledi. The Free State University spokesman at the Qwaqwa campus, Thabo Kessah, said free education means first and senior students who have applied and qualify to be funded will covered by the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (Nsfas).He said the grants will now be scholarships whereas in the previous years it was a loan to be paid back.