MEC for Sports, Arts and Culture Mathabo Leeto has come out and made allegations that she is a victim of a conspiracy of some people in the ANC who do not want to see her ascend for provincial party chairpersonship. She made these allegations at the sidelines of an ANC 106 celebration that was held in Meloding township of Virginia at Phahamisanang Primary School last Saturday. “These charges against me were withdrawn in 2016, why are they suddenly resurfacing when I am officially in the race for the position of the provincial chairperson of the ANC. I am not going to be derailed by people who are having their own agendas here, if the branches want me to stand I am not going to say no,” said Mathabo.She also accused organisers of the celebration of not informing her as a member of the ANC in good standing who has the right to be informed of party activities. Leeto and Bloem Water CEO Limakatso Moorosi appeared briefly at the Bloemfontein Magistrate Court last Friday on charges of corruption, money laundering and fraud. According to the NPA, the charges relate to allegations of awarding a tender of R15-million to procure photocopy machines and to install telephonic systems, as well as CCTV cameras for Matjhabeng Local Municipality, allegedly without following proper tender processes where Leeto was mayor and Moorosi a CFO.  Magistrate Marline Marais told the accused that the case has been referred to the Bloemfontein High Court where a pre-trial will be conducted on March 02. NPA’s spokesperson, Phaladi Shuping told Dumelang News that the reinstatement of charges against the MEC and her co-accused follows new evidence surfaced during police investigation. Leeto has been tipped by some as a contender for ANC top job in the province. At the beginning of last month she went on to tell the Sowetan publication that her endorsement to the post does not imply she is a Magashule loyalist. However, during her court appearance on Friday, none of the ANC members were seen in support of her and the court room was dominated by Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) members – including its provincial secretary Mandisa Makheseni and the Democratic Alliance leader in the legislature Roy Jankielsohn. In the same ANC 106 celebration, Lejweleputswa ANC Regional Deputy Secretary, Member of the ANC Youth League NEC and member of the Free State Legislature, Mojalefa Bhuti did not mince his words when he openly started throwing in names that he said should make it to the race of the provincial leadership of the ANC. According to Bhuti, MEC for police‚ roads and transport Sam Mashinini must be elected as the provincial chairperson deputised by MEC for COGTA, Sisi Ntombela while Mangaung Regional Secretary should be provincial Secretary with Speaker of the Legislature, Mamiki Qabathe being Deputy Secretary. Bhuti said Executive Mayor of Dihlabeng Local Municipality, Lindiwe Makhalema must be elected as provincial treasurer. According to Bhuti, current coordinator of the ANC interim provincial structure, William Bulwane is a national material and must be co-opted for a national position.Although there is already a visible element of political lobbying for the next provincial executive committee of the ANC, no official date has been set for the provincial elective conference as yet.