The recent decline and continuing closure of mining shafts in the second-largest mining city of the Free State, Welkom has significantly impacted the lives of its residents in a negative way.According to reports, the mining scale downgrade has resulted in a higher rate of unemployment, poverty and escalating crime in the Matjhabeng local municipality – which is located about 140km north west of Bloemfontein and encompasses Welkom and surrounding gold mining towns such as Virginia, Allanridge and Odendaalsrus. The areas are said to be facing a mountain hill of challenges ranging from aging infrastructure repairs, high debts and low revenue collection. The municipality currently owes the water supply entity – Sedibeng Water – around R1.9billion while their Eskom debt stands at about R5 009 million.According to the mayor Nkosinjane Speelman, the municipal collection projection is currently standing at 70 percent instead of 85 percent which makes a deficit of 15 percent a month and unable to meet their debt obligations. “That is a huge deficit for the municipality like ours. We are trying hard to collect revenue from our debtors but with our community members being our main debtor, it becomes difficult to even collect as expected,” the mayor said. “You will know that our towns were established based on the mining industry and as result of mines scale downgrade, our people become more and more unemployed and unable to pay their services which also contributes to the municipality not being able to repair infrastructure timeously,” said Speelman.Welkom was formed about 70 years ago and became a municipality 13 years later. The municipality – across its four towns - has a population of more than 400 000.According to census data, unemployment is estimated at 37 percent and population growth has been recorded as slightly negative. A 46-year-old unemployed Mojalefa Mokoena, a former mine worker, said he was retrenched as result of restructuring at Harmony Gold mine about five years ago.“There are no more job opportunities here... Even for young people. The scary part is that the very same youth who have nothing to do with their time turn to crime to make a living,” said Mokoena. He added that with the mines closing down shafts or not restructuring operations and many skilled people are being left behind. “Some make a living by mining illegally, risking arrest and even their lives. Illegal mining exploded in the area in recent years, prompting a crackdown by police,” Mokoena said.Harmony Gold spokesperson, Max Manoeli, told Dumelang news that the company is doing all it can to help community members with employment. “Following our agreement with the municipality and the Unemployment Forum to implement a special community development programme, we have opened a centre last week in Welkom that will equip residents with mining skills. The main idea is to create a pool from which Harmony can absorb a workforce from the successful trainees. We have started with 70 people and plan to have 560 people trained every year,” said Manoeli.  He said the mining company is now operating in only six shafts after 37 shafts were closed over the years due to some challenges.