Free State Premier, Dr. Ace Magashule is expected to deliver his last State of the Province Address (SOPA) on Tuesday evening at the historic Parys’ Afridome Showground. The much anticipated speech which was postponed twice before will mark the ninth that he delivered as premier since ascending the throne after the overwhelming victory of 22 April 2009 general elections by his party, the ANC. He was elected to the position by the Free State Legislature on 6 May 2009, replacing Beatrice Marshoff. After Tuesday’s SOPA, Magashule is expected to vacate office to focus on his role as Secretary General of the ANC as elected in December 2017 On Thursday, the speaker of the Free State Legislature Mamiki Qabathe has reassured residents of  smooth proceedings during this years’ opening of the Free State parliament. During her pre-SOPA media briefing Qabathe said preparations for next week’s strategic speech are at finishing stages and nothing will derail the address. “We have received letters from the opposition parties’ legal counsel but I can assure you that the matter will not derail us as it is being dealt with by lawyers from both sides. We handed the matter to our legal team to deal with it and we are going ahead with the opening of parliament as scheduled,” said Qabathe confidently. The assurance follows the DA’s leader in the provincial legislature, Dr Roy Jankielsohn’s media statement on Tuesday this week where he said the party has instructed its legal counsel to file papers in the High Court in Bloemfontein seeking relief to compel the speaker to schedule a date for the special sitting before SOPA to hear a debate and vote of no confidence against Magashule.Qabathe said the stage is set for the premier to address the Free State people and country under the theme “Celebrating 100 years of Nelson Mandela – a life dedicated to piece, unity and better life for all”. “The fact that the premier will delivering his last SOPA before resigning from office at the end of the financial year – which ends next month – to assume his new full-time job at the ANC headquarters (Luthuli House) as Secretary General does not mean any deviations from previous openings of parliament. It is a normal annual SOPA not a farewell for premier,” she said. For the second time in Free State history, the opening of parliament will this year be help at night from 7pm.