In what seems to be a gang terror attack on the Hlohlolwane Township of Clocolan in Mantsopa local municipality, has now claimed at least two lives in the past two weeks. On Sunday morning, the family of Mathapelo Tabane made a shocking discovery of their daughter’s body, lying lifeless not far away from their yard. According to Madillo Thabana, a cousin of the deceased, their gruesome discovery was made when she found out that her cousin, who originally hails from Botshabelo, was not at home in the early hours of Sunday. She heard people speaking outside and decided to go and investigate, only to find that the body of Mathapelo was discovered just meters outside their yard. “Mathapelo grew up here in Clocolan, left for and bit but then returned and now also lives here in Clocolan. We are not sure whether she was killed late on Saturday night or on Sunday morning. We only discovered her body on Sunday morning. Her clothes were torn giving us a  clear indication of rape. She sustained three deep wounds next to the heart. One of her eyes was also gorged and she was taken to government mortuary for post-mortem,” said Madillo. She described her cousin as someone who had no enemies around and said that the family was left with many unanswered questions on Mathapelo’s murder. According to police spokeperson, Phumelelo Dlamini, Mthapelo is the second victim of gang attacks. “The first incident was that of a young man who was murdered a week earlier in what seems to be a gang-related crime. We can also confirm that we have found  the body of a young woman on Sunday morning which is believed to be Mathapelo. A post-mortem was conducted and it was established that she had been raped before being murdered,” said Dlamini. Although initial police reports claimed that at least five members of the public have been arrested for mob justice after attacking local gang members, Dlamini said the arrests were related to a house robbery that happened a fortnight ago and not related to the two murders. He said the group appeared before Clocolan Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday and were remanded in custody while investigation was ongoing and also fearing that community unrest does not guarantee their safety should they be released. He appealed to members of the community to refrain from taking the law into their hands. “We are continuing with a manhunt for the killers of Mathapelo and the other man who was murdered a fortnight ago and we appeal to anyone who might have any information that could lead to any arrests to report to the nearest police station,” said Dlamini. He said it is still not known how many gangs are terrorising the society and what their motives are.