Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, delivered his first budget speech on Wednesday in a cloud of uncertainty. Many questioned whether he would be the one to deliver the much-anticipated speech as many opposition parties in parliament has urged president Cyril Ramaphosa to sack Gigaba, accusing him of involvement in state capture. Gigaba was appointed to the finance portfolio by former president Jacob Zuma on 31 March 2017, removing him from serving as Minister of Home Affairs, a post that he occupied after serving as Minister of Public Enterprises. Gigaba surprised investors and ratings agencies, like Moody’s, who initially sought clarity on the government’s plan to boost economic growth, resolve the budget deficit and the state’s debt levels, and how the state planned to deal with the financial position of state-owned entities such as Eskom. In his speech, Gigaba did just that and addressed such challenges. Amongst crucial interventions to resolve government’s deficit, was the increasing of VAT from 14 to 15 percent; a move that will see a contribution of roughly R23 billion to the fiscus. He said it was a tough, but hopeful budget and “it was unavoidable, given the already significant burden carried by individuals”. However, not everybody is happy about it looking at the fact that one in four South Africans cannot support themselves adequately; 18 – 59 year olds don’t get grants, corporate tax only supports 18 percent of the purse, so arguably, and ordinary citizens will be the hardest hit. Although, Nedbank economist, Nicky Weimar, said the budget has plotted a clear path to fiscal sustainability. “The outcome managed to determine whether Moody’s followed other major ratings agencies’ downgrades. Growth is likely to pick up in the coming three years,” she said. Gigaba announced that old age, disability and care dependency grants for the 3.7 million people will rise by R90 to R1 690 by April 1 and by another R10 by October while child support grant for 12.8 million people will increase by R20 from R380 to R400, and by another R10 come October 1. Dumelang News spoke to one 60-year-old Margaret Pitso from Sports location in Mangaung, Bloemfontein, who said her family will see joy after the increase. “I can’t wait for April now. That money will make a huge difference to my struggling family of six,” she said. Pitso said when she first heard the news from her friend, she could not believe it until she heard it on the news again, listening from her small radio. Gigaba also announced an increase in the fuel levy; something that did not sit well with everyone as it means digging deeper in motorists’ pockets. A Dumelang News reader, Teboho Mahloko who is a local taxi driver in Bloemfontein said the industry will feel the pinch even more when the increase is implemented. “We are already spending more money on fuel and still have to compete with other transport companies such as buses for passengers,” said Mahloko. The fuel levy will certainly have a knock on effect from the seat of your taxi to the shelves of your local supermarket. However if these steps by Gigaba fires up our ailing economy as its envisaged, then certainly that will have a positive reach in bringing down unemployment. Meanwhile MEC Elzabe Rockman has confirmed Free State's Budget Speech will be delivered on the 7th of March. She will further welcome reccomendations from the public to the following address: Facebook: FS Provincial Treasury Twitter Handle: @FSTreasury #BUDGET2018 Email: communications@treasury.fs.gov.za