History has proven that every new head of state is likely to bring in new members of the cabinet and it will not be different with the newly elected president. Independent political analyst, Ralph Mathekga shared his opinion on the election of former deputy president to ascend the highest position in the country on Thursday.  Following today’s State of the Nation Address, it means that the president will be facing a question and answer session in parliament on Tuesday. “When Ramaphosa was elected as the president of the ANC, he became known for his stance on promoting unity not within the party but also in the country, therefore he will be judged based on that notion,” said Mathekga. He suggested that in order to achieve his objectives as the president of the country, Ramaphosa must ensure that he brings in at least one or two woman as a part of his cabinet. He however could not disclose any name/s that he envisages that Ramaphosa can bring in. Mathekga strongly believes that Ramaphosa’s next move will be to reshuffle cabinet, that is where history and track record will play a role in ensuring that strategic departments like finance ministry and South African Revenue Services (SARS) are filled with loyal individuals who have the best interests of the citizens at heart. The same sentiments were echoed by Political analyst Dr Sethulego Matebesi who believes early cabinet reshuffle could do more harm for the ruling party than good. He said though he doubts finance minister Malusi Gigaba’s capabilities in the office, he believes the ANC will be more cautious in replacing him ahead of Wednesday’s much awaited budget speech as that might only cause more animosity in the party. “Yes, it is possible that the president might reshuffle his cabinet but I don’t think that will happen before Wednesday’s budget speech especially now after what happened this week when former president Jacob Zuma was recalled while preparing his speech for SONA… it will have more political consequences,” said Matebesi. However, Matebesi added that it won’t be surprising to hear of the reshuffle soon looking at how the ANC is doing things lately. “Ramaphosa is facing pressure from his supporters in the ANC and outside the party to get rid of Zuma supporters such as Bathabile Dlamini (Social Development Minister) and Msebenzi Zwane (Mineral Resource Minister) also because of the seriousness of allegations of corruption against him,” he said.