Following the postponement of the much-anticipated opening of parliament in the Free State this week, we caught up with the speaker of the Free State Legislature Mamiki Qabathe during her busy preparations for SOPA to get her thoughts on the event, on politics and more. Madam speaker, the coming opening of parliament will be the fourth under your leadership and the first to be postponed. Can you share with us what led to the postponement?As you know, the State of the Nation Address (SONA) has been postponed and the new date is yet to be set, provinces – we take a cue from SONA – had to be postponed to allow premiers to align their address with national address. A new date in this regard will be announced. How are the preparations so far? Is the legislature or the province ready to host the State of the Province Address (SOPA)?We are ready to host SOPA. We can be called upon at anytime and we will be able to respond. We know that opposition parties (particularly the DA) has requested a special sitting to be scheduled before SOPA to hear a debate and vote of no confidence against premier Ace Magashule and you have responded to them through a letter.What did you say? At the moment, it is still an internal matter where we are engaging with one another on the request, given the fact that the speaker does not work in isolation with the rest of other member and political parties. The request comes from the DA but the speaker must get consensus from other parties in terms of a date which we can call the meeting. I wrote to the Chief Whip of the ANC to call all political parties to look at the programme we have adopted and advise the speaker. That is where we are with our engagements. Failing to grant them their wish, they threatened to force you – through the court – to schedule a special sitting. Do you think through your engagements that happen?Look, I don’t know why  they are edgy because we are at the stage where we have not said yes or no to their request. To me, they would have been justified if they say the speaker has said no to their request. For now, I am engaging with all other stake holders to check if we do have a date and can afford to have such meeting.  However, we are also looking at the contents of the issues they raise because there are two requests which are debates on the motion of no confidence and urgent special sitting. Both requests are dealt with separately in terms of the rules of the house. Calling for an urgent meeting has its own rules and they must now justify to the speaker as to why they say the matter is urgent so the speaker can then consider whether it really is urgent or whether it can go the normal process of the legislature, hence the matter is being referred to the parties. Just shifting a bit from the legislature, as a member and a leader in the ruling party (ANC)… is the party – according to you – still relevant as a struggle movement?Remember, the ANC is not just a political party… it is a liberation movement. For as long as there are people still living in poverty, inequality, unemployment and many others; such as lack of infrastructure, the ANC will remain relevant to be there. The most important thing now is the economy of the country and for as long as our country’s economy still found to be in the hands of a certain nationality, the party remains relevant to continue with the struggle. Do you think there is any political party that can parallel the ANC in South Africa?I don’t think there is any political party than match the ANC or even destroy the organisation. ANC may be destroyed by its members… our own challenges, internal fights and not being able to reconcile with ourselves and also to remember what were the intended purposes of the ANC to be formed. Personally though, one can say you are one of the most hard-working women – between the legislature, ANC and ANC women’s league - in the province, what motivates you each day?I am humbled really… what always drives me to wake up and try working harder than yesterday is the very history that we come from. I don’t want to find myself back in the days of apartheid. I don’t wish for that and nobody should suffer from that again and as long as we still have challenges of bucket systems, inaccessible roads and poverty – this  makes me a work-harder and motivates me. In all your busy day-to-day schedules, where does your family fit in? What is the first thing that you do when you get home? Wow, I am a mother and grandmother first of all and I do enjoy being with my family a lot although I – like every mother –  have a daily normal fight with kids when it comes to watching TV because that is where I first go when I get home and watch news and they sually want to watch their own things.