Bethlehem based Dihlabeng FM has surprised many by scooping top accolades at the recent National Community Radio Station Week(NRCW in Bloemfontein last Friday, by scooping the Station of the year award.This is the highest award offered to the station which has garnered the most votes from its listeners or supporters. The Bethlehem based station broke its virginity in the awards by scooping an award which even its detractors didn't see coming their way as the station is relatively young. Dihlabeng FM was initiated by a group of youth who saw the need for great massive means of communications and close a gap in information sharing especially amongst geographical towns sharing local municipality. These initiatives that have gone on air last year January has its own share of ups and downs as it tries to get its feet on community broadcasting and being the leaders of information sharing partners. Among the challenges that the station has gone through is the exodus of presenters from the information platform citing reasons such as remuneration. The station staff and management get paid through EPWP and much of the business sector has not come on board in terms of advertisement. Being named the station of the year has brought the much-needed attention to the station that is relatively young but has surprised the many by scooping the highest accolades at NCRW. Hopefully, the station waits with bated breath whether this award will bring much need revenue in terms of advertisement. The road to the NCRW has not been an easy one to the station at it has to convince their listeners to vote for them. A programme was developed to garner votes from listeners and schools and business was visited for support. A lot of airplay was used for this cause and ultimately won the day. According to Basi Mokgothu Station Manager of Dihlabeng FM, he was delighted that the station won the award during his tenure of leadership and thank all who have voted for the station. He concluded by saying they will do their best to keep the listeners informed and improving the quality output of the station.