Last week’s decision by the South African Heritage Resource Agency (SAHRA) to declare Waaihoek Wesleyan Church in Bloemfontein as a national heritage site is lone overdue. Says Mangaung Metro Municipality Mayor, Olly Mlamleli. The building, which forms part of South Africa’s history since  1912 as the ruling party ANC’s birth place, have been declared national heritage site last week after the Free State provincial government bought it for R10m seven years ago. It was previously used as a panel-beating workshop before receiving a major renovation ahead of the party’s centenary celebration in 2012. On Sunday, Mlamleli said the municipality has receive a letter from the SAHRA requesting a meeting next week where formal presentation to the municipality will be made. “We are meeting with SAHRA next week for a formal presentation on the Wesleyan church to be declared heritage site… the process I believe to be long overdue. We are all what we are today because of that church and it is only befitting that it too turned into a heritage site since history was made there in January 1912,” said Mlamleli.Prominent leaders such as Pixley Seme, Saul Msane, Sol Plaatjie and WB Rubusana were joined by traditional and religious leaders inside the church to form the then South African Native National Congress (SANNC) which was 11 years later changed and renamed the African National Congress (ANC). ANC provincial spokesperson Thabo Meeko concurred with Mlamleli saying that it is important to look after the country’s history for the future generation. “This is a good decision taken by the SAHRA to declare the organisation’s birth place a heritage site which will ensure that history of the ANC and the struggle our forefathers is known by the future generations… that will help them know where the freedom they enjoy comes from,” said Meeko. The building was previously owned by a businessman Kevin Jacobs who sold it to the Free State department of sport, art and culture after lengthy negotiations.