Following allegations of under-development in Maluti-A-Phofung Local Municipality by a group made up of opposition parties, Dumelang News enquired from the current Executive Mayor, Vusi Tshabalala on the state of the municipality. He indicated that when he took office in 2014, the area was still in its former homeland state with residents staying in old dilapidated houses, using structurally disfigured roads with some residents getting drinking water from unhealthy dams. “In our current leadership, we have completed a number of projects that speaks directly to essential services. Some of these are the upgrading of Makwane Treatment Works, Matshekgeng Pipeline and Phahameng East Pipeline. Currently underway, we have a project in Wilge where we are upgrading the Wilge Waste Water Treatment which is in its phase one; two contracts were awarded there. Also in Phuthaditjhaba, we have a provision of water services for network extension and 2940 erf in Mangaung,” said Tshabalala. According to the mayor, it was important for residents within the municipality to always familiarise themselves with key developmental documents like the Integrated Development Plan and the Local Economic Development manual which are obtainable at public libraries and at the reception areas of the municipal’s offices. He said by so doing, the public will stay abreast with developments within their areas than to be misinformed by individuals who are pushing ulterior agendas that are against the development of communities. Some of members of the community that Dumelang News spoke to believe that under Tshabalala’s leadership, the municipality has seen a great deal of improvement. Masetjhaba Mjika from Tshiame B said it was important not to forget that Phuthaditjhaba was a homeland. “We come from a history of the homeland arrangement with the apartheid government mistreating us as if we are not human beings. Today, we have a new transparent government system that is willing to listen to us when we have problems. We cannot expect that the damage in our lives that has been created over hundreds of years to be resolved in just less than ten years,” said Mjika. In sync with Mjika’s sentiments were from one local businessman, Butinyana Botsime who said not everyone can be a business person, people should allow municipal programmes to unfold and create opportunities for those with relevant skills.