Khothatso Mokone Mokone said the country needs financial stability and restoration of its status. “For that, I think the first person to get the boot should be the finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and be replaced with former Minister Pravin Gordhan. I am not saying he (Gigaba) is incompetent but I just don’t trust his capacities in that office. Since his appointment as the minister, I don’t really see anything good that he has done. I would like to see Gordhan back in the same office as I believe he was doing a very good job in building good financial relations with other countries and mostly keeping this country out of junk status,” Mokone said. Tedutsebeng April Khateane Khateane said that very little to nothing impressed him anymore. “I don’t really care who comes in and who goes out at this stage because I believe these people are all the same once they get into office. They do change to serve their masters, whether the master is wrong or right. But I will be pleased if whoever is appointed as the new minister in any department can will be a person who puts his job and the people of South Africa first before his/her master. Everyone wants to be in those high positions and some are there for wrong and self-enriching purposes, we have seen this happening before,” Khateane said. Pulane Motshoeneng Motshoeneng said Social Development Minister, Bathabile Dlamini should be chopped and that it should be done fast. “I do not understand why Minister Bathabile is still in the office even today after all her poor performance and scandals after scandals such as Sassa saga… that beats me. Being the president of ANCWL does not mean she is powerful and cannot be removed and hope president (Cyril) Ramaphosa knows that too. She is incompetent and mostly seems to have no control over her officials. I would think Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma would be good to replace her but looking at her experience, I believe she too should be appointed Deputy president and somebody takeover the social development department,” Motshoeneng said. Juan-Pierre Ludeke Ludeke said the country needs a clean and fresh start. “The new president Cyril Ramaphosa comes a long way and sure he knows what to do but I would like to emphasis to him that the country needs a new start with new people who will not come to office to appease him. That means all cabinet members should be removed and new people appointed. However, I would like to see him appointing people as per their qualifications and experience not the current political deployment methods they use because it has proven that it has too many challenges. Everyone must get a chance through their experience and qualification,” he said. Mzoxolo Mpolase Mpolase said that he was expecting a wholesale change in the cabinet, with Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba the most likely to go. “He is not a good finance minister. He is not of the stature of Nhlanhla Nene, let alone Trevor Manuel. He has to go from that perspective. The person who occupies National Treasury is key to political certainty. There are those ministers who are still likely to keep their jobs and remain in the cabinet but not Police Minister Fikile Mbalula‚ Local Government Minister Des Van Rooyen‚ Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane‚ Energy Minister David Mahlobo‚ International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula,” he said.