In recent weeks, residents of Tumahole have been battling sleepless nights over a spate of break-ins that has taken over the area of Parys situated in Ngwathe Local Municipality.Dumelang News has received numerous calls from angry and concerned readers who alleged that they have experienced break-ins and lost valuables to various criminal elements that have been plaguing the community. Thabang Moeng, a devastated supervisor of Tumahole Public Swimming Pool,  told Dumelang News that they had two break-ins in the space of two weeks. “The first incident occurred on February 12 when one our life guards, Tiisetso Mpholo ,came to fetch the keys so that he can open the facility to clean the water for the day’s use. Minutes later, Mpholo called me to say he found door locks broken and wide open. Upon investigating, he found that all the basin taps had been removed and shower spray-heads were also ripped off. What is worse, is that the thieves dug into the wall to extract copper pipes that carry water from one tap to another,” said Moeng. Just when they thought it could not get any worse, the incident repeated itself on Wednesday when his colleague, upon opening the facility to cut the lawn, found that the electric box was ripped from the wall with cables stolen. “There was no light or electricity supply due to the cable theft. We called the police who did not even bother to go inside to investigate. They merely interviewed us at the gate and instructed Tiisetso to come to the police station to register a statement and since then we have not heard anything from them,” said Moeng. Another resident, who did not want to be named for fear of reprisals from her governmental employer, called in at Dumelang News office to report that her school –  the St Barnard High School –  had been broken into and electronic items were stolen. “One cannot even sleep in peace at night due to these crimes being committed in our area,” said the concerned resident. An enquiry by this publication to the police was unsuccessful. Police spokesperson for the Sasolburg cluster, Constable Josephine Rani, said she could not confirm the spate of break-ins as alleged by members of the public. Initially, she called Dumelang News office and said she could not locate the investigating officers of such matters and would respond once she received information from her colleagues. At the time of going to print, this publication did not get feedback from Rani.