From being in limbo after the postponement of SONA to hope and possibly great expectations! As Cyril Ramaphosa took to the stage  as the nation’s new Commander -In-Chief and even before the new president could be sworn in, South Africans across the rivers, dunes and mountains already set their sights on him for restoration and revival.  Here’s what Free Staters had to say about that election of the 5th  democratic president of the Republic….. Omphile Mathe - “Well, I am expecting lots of things from him. Most importantly for me, though, will be the reducing of the high unemployment in the country. Young people are not working and because of that we see such an increase in crime. Many young women are also turning into baby making machines, just to receive that extra bit of grant for survival. I’m hoping President Ramaphosa can work out the issue with grants being allocated in the way it has been, by reducing it and rather diverting that money to the establishment of projects across the country that will increase employment and discourage this culture of laziness amongst young people. I believe if a person is not too old and isn’t disabled, then they should work for their earnings. I hope the new president takes the same approach,” Omphile said. Kopano Modise - “I think the new president has already got the ball rolling, dealing with things that this country really needs. He has already had a positive effect on the country’s economy since his election as ANC president last year… the rand is stronger and the fight against corruption has kicked into gear. I only want him to keep his focus on the economy of this country and continue to fight against corruption because we need more investment from other countries to be able to progress and be a better country. We need a leader who will put people first and not their pockets. He needs to put his skills as a business man to good use now,” Kopano said. Eddie Goliath - “I would like to see him ensuring that those responsible for the corruption in government are sent to jail. That is the only thing that will make me happy. He needs to deal with those people who stole billions of rands from the country that could have changed many people’s lives. However, I believe that the decay in the ANC runs rather deep and that Cyril Ramaphosa may not be able to salvage the whole country. But it’s worth a try. Secondly, I want to see the implementation of expropriation of land without compensation as one of the urgent things he puts first on his list of things to do,” Eddie said. Nomaliso Ndlabu - “I don’t think there will be much difference in his presidency as compared to the previous one, especially looking at people like us who survive by selling food on the streets for the past 16 years. If he can only be truthful and focus on changing the lives of poor people, like supporting us as street vendors, I will be happy enough.  However, we all know that positive change will not be one big miracle that happens overnight.  I guess we will just have to wait and see if he will be a better president who will not be recalled from office like the others,” Nomaliso said. Ebrahim Fakir (political analyst)- “The nature of the expectations are wholly unrealistic, the expectations that suddenly there is going to be a turnaround in growth and turnaround in unemployment… it can’t happen. Ramaphosa will inherit the residual structural problems of the South African economy as they are now and not just the lack of transformation, but also the lack of revenue and ability to meet targets. Even though markets are expecting prosperity under a Ramophosa regime and they are hoping for a recovery in the economy from the low growth run, it might be a while before South Africans see change,” Ebrahim said.