“Nothing and no one will stop me from becoming architectural engineer,” says a determent grade 12 student Bongiwe Moshou at Hodisa technical High School in Rocklands Bloemfontein. The 18-year-old orphaned made a promise while thanking Mangaung Metro Municipality – in partnership with ABSA bank and Standard Bank - for the much-needed donation of scientific calculators, school shoes and food parcels on Tuesday aimed at boosting their preparations for this year’s matric exams. She said her eyes and focus for this year is only to pass her matric with high marks to enable her to receive bursaries to further her studies at the university next year. “My goal is one… to change my family’s poor conditions at the end of my studies. Nothing or no one is going to distract me on that. I want to study architectural engineering next year because I love it and know the country still needs many engineers in different fields,” said Moshou. “I want to thanks the municipality, ABSA and Standard Bank for their help because my brother could not afford to buy me a calculator. I really appreciate the efforts and will not disappoint”. Moshou said her parents died while she was only six years old and since staying with her older brother who works as a taxi driver to support her and her younger brother. 230 matriculants were received scientific calculators while 60 among them went home with new school shoes and six of them got food parcels as well. School deputy principal Mpho Zukiswa it is heart breaking to see kids every day coming to school with no proper uniform and still working hard. “This will sure boost them in many ways because of the conditions they experience at home. Especially calculators as they do maths and science… they do need them,” said Zukiswa. Mangaung Deputy Mayor Lebohang Masoetsa encouraged leaners to work hard this year saying the country awaits technical skills they will get from school. “Our country needs you to study hard and become technicians and engineers… it is waiting for you. We do believe in you and hope that you will not disappoint because as the municipality, we are here to give you all necessary support you need,” he said.