The recalling of Maluti-A-Phofung Executive Mayor, Vusi Tshabalala on Monday by the ANC, has been described as a move towards the unity of the organisation in the region.Although Tshabalala has previously survived a number of no confidence motions tabled by the EFF, he was subsequently recalled by the party’s Provincial Interim Committee (PIC). According to the party’s PIC Coordinator, William Bulwane, Tshabalala recalling follows weeks of engagements within the organisation. “Over the past couple of months we have seen our glorious movement falling victim to internal cracking simply because our members including some who are working for the municipality causing divisions within and this affected the performance of political heads like comrade Vusi with some labelling him that he was aligned to certain groupings, something that we as a collection do not believe that a seasoned cadre like comrade Vusi can cause. Therefore, to avoid any further accusations from these factions to name Vusi as the one diving them, we have taken a cautious decision to recall him from his current deployment,” said Bulwane. Dumelang News has learnt from a reliable source that Tshabalala has been tipped to be sworn in as member of the Free State Legislature in the next few weeks in an unspecified portfolio. However, Bulwane could not confirm Tshabalala’s next deployment but did hint that the ANC was looking into deploying him to a new role. “As the ANC, we avoid at all costs to be embroiled on speculations of which comrade will serve at what portfolio because this is the very reason that our organisation sometimes finds itself having to deal with divisions because there are those who solely in the organisation to fight for position when the majority of us, including comrade Vusi try by all means possible to bring unity as mandated by our policies,” added Bulwane. Tshabalala has made a name for himself for championing the transforming the former homeland of QwaQwa to what it is today. Some whom Dumelang News spoke to said he “is the man who took QwaQwa from rural” to a tourism attraction destination of choice. Some of the milestones that came to the fore include Dipontsho Tsa Maluti A Phofung, Traditional Leaders Summit amongst others. With the Special Economic Zone also being some of the projects that were initiated under his leadership, the area will surely see economic spinoffs.