A Bloemfontein based property sales agent faced the wrath of his potential buyers when he posted his latest offering, an RDP house on social media on Tuesday. Lesego Saila posted on the Mangaung Business Network Session site the advert stating that he was selling an RDP house that is situated in Mangaung’s Turflaagte near Kopanong High School for a whooping R160 000 and asked those interested to call him on the number that he displayed which Dumelang News also retrieved before the post was removed for further enquiries in the “offer”. One of the users of the sites responded and asked “R160 000?” while the other expressed shock on the attempts to sell what is obtainable free of charge from government by those deserving. When Dumelang News called Saila minutes after the post, he responded very confidently and promised to meet the People’s Paper’s reporter who pretended to be a potential and desperate buyer. “Must I bring the paperwork Sir, so that we can start with exchange of cash so that we can save time as these things take time…and you can occupy the house before end of the week?,” he asked. The meeting never materialised as scheduled, when Dumelang News tried to look for the post to check if the “offer” was still available, the post was already deleted.This publication understands that while the state housing subsidy programme specifies that a beneficiary shall not sell or otherwise alienate his or her dwelling or site within a period of eight years. However, it could not be establish who the owner of House number 32758 Turflaagte and whether has eight years lapsed since being handed over to him. Member of Mayoral Committee for Human Settlements and Housing in Mangaung Metro, Councillor Morake Molefi although they advice residents not to sell their RDP houses, it was impossible to take disciplinary actions against people who sold their RDP houses because they were not government employees. “While the Housing Act 107 of 1997, as amended by the Housing Amendment Act 4 of 2001, sets out that a subsidy beneficiary “shall not sell or otherwise alienate his or her dwelling or site within a period of eight years” as a condition of the state housing subsidy programme, no punitive measures are stipulated in this regard. We are looking at closing this lacuna in our law. Our people must be cognisant of the fact that they only qualify once for housing assistance from government and therefore a decision to sell the houses we provide them should not be taken lightly, it should be driven by the fact that their economic conditions have changed for the better,” she said.