BLOEMFONTEIN - Mamelodi Sundowns are expected to lift the ABSA Premiership trophy tomorrow afternoon after their match with Bloemfontein Celtics at Dr. Petrus Molemela Stadium. The reigning African Champions, have already secured their eighth league title since the new Premier Soccer League (PSL) format which took effect in August 1996. The Brazilians are already on 59 points, seven ahead of second-placed Orlando Pirates, who can only finish on 55 points if they win their final match against Free State Stars on Saturday afternoon. It is also expected that fans will come in their numbers to fill up the 22 000 capacity Stadium, which will have both Celtic and Sundowns fans trying to outdo each other with songs that will electrify the atmosphere. Meanwhile, Sewelele will not only give a guard of honour to the 2017/18 Champions, but they will be looking for maximum points on the field of play. Celtic, who are looking to cement their place in the top 8, are seating on the ninth position with 36 points after playing 29 matches. Should the home outfit win their match against Sundowns, they will be hoping that Chippa United and Bidvest Wits lose their matches so that they can see themselves playing in the MTN Top 8 in the new season after the FIFA World Cup. Chippa United, who are on the eighth position with 36 points, will be visiting Polokwane City while Wits, who are in the tenth position also with 36 points, will be travelling to Royal Bafokeng Stadium to take on Platinum Stars. The 2017/18 Premier Soccer League is coming to an end this weekend, with four of the five bottom teams playing for survival. Platinum Stars' relegation to the National First Division (NFD) have already been confirmed, but any of the four teams above them could still finish 15th and participate in the play-offs. As things stand, Ajax Cape Town appear to be in deep trouble, more so because they're facing a Kaizer Chiefs side that's looking to finish the season on a high. The Urban Warriors are currently sitting on 31 points, two behind 14th-placed SuperSport United with a goal difference of a minus five (-5). United are on a minus six (-6). Matsatsantsa take on Baroka, who are on 34 points, and Ajax Cape Town will hope for the Polokwane-based outfit to win or at worst for the match to end in a draw. Highlands Park have already been crowned the NFD champions. They will replace the relegated Platinum Stars in the Premier Division. Jomo Cosmos and Black Leopards will still contest for the remaining slot via the promotional play-offs which start on May 16. The three-team mini league will also involve the team which will finish 15th on the Absa Premiership log table.