Busamed is a proudly South African private hospital group with four bed licenses currently across South Africa, offering friendly, cost effective and innovative healthcare service in a safe and caring environment. its one of the state-of-the-art, Busamed Bram Fischer International Airport Hospital at heart of the South Africa’s Mangaung City in Bloemfonteing on Friday last week. The Private Hospital is a 110-bed acute care hospital, housed at the Bram Fisher International Airport ideally close to the fast developing N8 corridor route between Bloemfontein and the populous Botshabelo and Thaba-Nchu townships. Busamed Executive Chairman and founder Diliza Mji said Busamed is not only looking at improving health the Mangaung citizens at large but also has a fundamental responsibility of combating poverty and unemployment. During its construction phase Busamed created over 300 temporary job opportunities and 150 permanent jobs, a major contribution to the economy of Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality. “In Busamed we saw a unique and strategic opportunity to bridge the divide and to raise the levels of black participation in the industry,” said Mji.  The newest hospital in the Busamed stable, launched on 08 December, is the Busamed Harrismith Private Hospital, a 120-bed acute care facility. This modern facility rests at the foot of the Platberg mountains and its convenient loca- tion places the hospital on the N3 highway that connects KwaZulu Natal and Johannesburg. The hospitals also have a 24hr centers that cater for all emergencies. However, Airports Company South Africa’s (ACSA) Group Executive for infrastructure asset management Badisa Matshego added that the project is meant to assist the provincial government’s economic strategy in addition to Mangaung Metro’s IDP. Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela who officially opened the hospital – accompanied by MEC for health Butana Komphela - shared her happiness and thanks to the Busamed group for bringing the facility in the Free State. “I am certain that this facility will not be complacent but will have its ear on the ground and be responsive to the health care needs of our people in its immediate surroundings. Collectively, it is us who must rescue our own people from the burden of disease and ensure that universal access to quality healthcare is not a myth.” She said that “Busamed Bram Fischer International Airport Hospital has brought all races in one room which is what our struggle stalwart Bram Fischer stood for”. It is further projected that Busamed will be involved in the creation of nursing academies, which will ensure skills transfer and alleviation of nursing staff shortages.